The equity market story has become more
attractive for a lot of places.
>> We're forecasting 14% EPS growth for the
S&P next year, followed by another 13%
in 2027.
>> While everything is very strong right
now, I think the risk is does something
happen in 2026 [music]
that gives the market pause.
>> Maybe the volatility is normal as we get
higher and higher at market altitudes.
[music] I think the areas of the market
that led this bull market over the first
three years may very well not be the
areas that lead this bull market over
its next three years.
>> This is Bloomberg [music] Surveillance
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
and Anmarie Hordern.
>> Good morning and welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance live from New York City. I
am Anry Hordern alongside David Gur this
morning. Jonathan is still on paternity
leave and Lisa has the week off. It's
normally supposed to be a very quiet
week. Of course, this is the second to
last week of the year. And [music] with
little data, many starting their
holidays early, it should be quiet. But
the market squarely [music] focused on
geopolitical risk this morning as the US
intensifi intensifies an oil blockade
against Venezuela [music]
as well as investors debating the Fed's
next move as we head into 2026. Some
distorted data and changes [music] at
the top of the central bank. David, good
morning. Thank you so much for not
leaving me alone on this very quiet
week. [music] It normally would be
quiet, but a lot of catalysts right now
pointing to geopolitical issues.
>> Yeah, I think this confusion in in South
America continues to loom large here.
[music] So, we had the US going after
two other ships over the course of of
this weekend. You know, the question
still looms here. What is the endgame
for the administration going forward
here? You look at Venezuela, the amount
of oil that it has been producing isn't
significant in the kind of global
context. Um, but again, I think that
there's this kind of looming large here
this spectrum of what does this mean?
What is the Trump administration going
to do going forward here? Uh, and that's
kind of coloring a lot of what we're
looking forward to [music] this week.
>> And we might actually get an update on
potentially what their plans are in
Latin America today. At 4:30 p.m., the
president is set to make an announcement
with Pete [music] Pete Hegs, Secretary
of War, and the Secretary of the Navy.
On top of all this, Wall Street Journal
had some reporting over the weekend
about how the Fed race is shaping up.
[music] A lot of people seem to be
calling on behalf of individuals into
the White House and the president hasn't
made his decision yet. And this week
reports that he is going to be or next
week [music] rather he's going to be in
Mara Lago for about two weeks time in
Palm Beach. He's going to be
interviewing Rick Reer. So potentially a
dark horse candidate
>> taking his sweet [music] time here. Uh
as he's wanted to do. I think it was
last week he was talking about his
affection for the two Kevin once again.
We thought it was going to be war or
Hassen the front runners for this. Um
yeah introducing Rick Reer is another
here going forward. Look the the [music]
interviews continue apparently. I think
that's a surprise to a lot of people who
thought that at least he'd come come
close to or had made up his decision
thus far. Uh but he has promised if I'm
not mistaken based on what he heard la
what I heard last time um by the
beginning of next year we're going to
get something [music]
>> hopefully by the beginning of 2026 and
maybe Steven Governor Myron will weigh
in on that. He'll be joining us in the
8:00 hour. Let's take a look at where
markets are trading this morning. Equity
futures are pointing to a higher start
this morning. We do have the S&P 500 um
actually flipping [music]
to now having a be positive for the
month. But the real action this morning
of course is in [music] commodities.
Gold, silver, copper, all hitting fresh
records. There you have gold at a fresh
record. And [music] New York crude as
well this morning up 1.7%. WTI of course
is this as David and I were just
discussing about what is going on with
Venezuela as the US administration is
continuing and intensifying that
blockade. Coming up on the program,
Marvin Low of State Street with stocks
looking for third day of gains. former
House Financial Services Committee Chair
Patrick Mckenry as US ramps ramps up the
Venezuela blockade and Abigail Watt of
UBS on when we may see the Fed's next
rate move. We are now joined by Marvin
Low. Marvin, thank you so much for
joining us this morning. Um you talk
about while the lowhanging fruit of the
capital investment are falling US rates
has largely been priced and picked there
is some vegetation on the tree
[laughter]
that should continue to support risk
takingaking. Talk us through this
vegetation. Yeah, I mean I mean
ultimately um when we think about what
investors absorb this year, you know, it
certainly is one where um investors are
willing to look through some of the
noise and you know, not to say that
geopolitics are noise, but you know,
generally speaking from market
perspective, um asset values incorporate
that uncertainty quite quickly. um is
there anything that I see in the horizon
that really kind of changes that
positive ultimate environment? And you
know, we still have an we still have a
world where we're talking about lower
rates from the Fed, maybe not
necessarily around the world. That's
incredibly supportive. Um and the
capital spend associated with what has
been the driver for a lot of these
equity value uh values are still out
there.
>> We didn't touch on the 10-year yield
depth. It's up two basis points this
morning. This is of course coming off
across what's happening in Japan. JGP's
up six basis points. We still see
Japanese yields rising. Is that a risk
to the US story?
>> You know what? It is ultimately um my
view is that the Bank of Japan um has
the ability to some to cap that
ultimately if they provide the market
with some substance in terms of how high
they're going to go and what they need
to do to control inflation. But until
then, that uncertainty definitely pulls
up US yields, definitely pulls up global
yields. Um, and from the perspective of
what a lot of these economies want,
which is lower long yields, kind of
given how important that long yield is
to, you know, overall economic
development, um, it's it's not a great
thing, but we're all but we're also not
at levels that create a massive amount
of concern yet.
>> Um, I'll stick with your vegetation
metaphor and ask you about sort of the
ripeness of some of what's on the tree
here. So, the story here over the last
few weeks has been about [snorts] AI,
concerns over capital spending. I'm
curious sort of where you think we are
in that narrative. So looking ahead to
2026, have we have we turned a page in
any sort of way? How much is that going
to color the way that you're looking at
the market?
>> So I think so I think there there are
two things to to think through here. One
is just the AI um uh process itself and
I think we're still in early innings
there. um you know uh there was a
wonderful story in the Wall Street
Journal about uh a vending machine and
uh how AI was uh ultimately given the
ability to um figure out what to sell
and what to buy and it didn't work. So
so we're still you know quite early in
the process of it being integrated into
our daily life. So from an investment
perspective that is still I think a
thesis that's out there. When we talk
about the hyperscalers and the amount of
investment needed to kind of get that
into the economy, if you will, um there
are there are, you know, winners and
losers that people are picking right
now. And I think that's healthy. Just
just to say that I'm going to buy
anything at whatever cost is where you
wind up in trouble in financial markets.
So the fact that we're starting to
rational rationalize our capital is a
good part of this evolutionary process.
>> How are you thinking about that
rationalization? So what are you looking
for as you kind of doesn't have to be
the hyperscalers but other kind of
ancillary companies to AI? What what are
you looking at or what's giving you the
the most pause as you look their kind of
outlooks?
>> Um it I I I think you touched on it
correctly. It is the capital side of
things. It is the amount of debt that's
out there. Um and it is the fact that
the amount of capital and debt available
is not unlimited and we know that. Um
and it does show to a certain degree a
maturation of where we are in the cycle,
but large deals are still getting done.
So um if in fact these large deals can
get done and they cost more, it's
probably coming from somewhere else. So
let's think through kind of these
knock-on effects. Think about what parts
of the market might be more effective.
And it might not necessarily be AI,
right? It's it's a capital pool that
finds an efficient um investment. If
it's all going to one place, that means
that there's some rationalization
elsewhere. Marvin, how do you think
about the Fed next year? Money markets
pricing in two cuts. You think that's
too much?
>> Um, you know, I I personally I do, but I
think it's too much by one, if you will.
So, in the grand scheme of how big this
economy is, one rate cut here or there
doesn't really make a difference. Um,
uh, and really the fact that we haven't
seen much movement in yield around this
kind of one versus two type of
discussion means that, you know, it's
it's it's it's somewhat irrelevant. What
winds up happening is that when you
think about the reaction function, it's
still to lower yields, which is, you
know, ultimately supportive. We're not
talking about higher yields. That
asymmetric uh that uh asymmetry
associated with kind of that decision
tree um is supportive for for risk
assets ultimately.
>> You had Williams on Friday talking about
distorted data, Beth Hammock, who's
going to get a vote this this year uh to
the Wall Street Journal was talking
about the fact that she is still
concerned about inflation. What do you
make of the underlying inflation data?
we got do you think it was distorted
because of the collection issues we had
with the government shutdown?
>> Yeah, I mean it was going to be a wonky
number no matter what. Um you know we
didn't have collection throughout the
month of October. We were um quite short
in terms of our um surveys in November.
Um and the amount of estimates that the
BLS needed to make was one where it it
really calls into question what you
could do with it. The market didn't
react to it. So the market looked
through it. We've got a lot of data
between now and the next Fed meeting and
that's going to really provide much
better guidance on where the economy is
going.
>> How much confidence do you have about
your understanding of sort of how much
inflation is out there at this point? So
Stephen Myron is going to come on later.
One of his big criticisms is it's not
just backward looking. It's too backward
looking. We don't have a firm grasp of
sort of what the inflation picture looks
like. H how about you? How much are we
fumbling through this right now?
>> You you know what? Um there there have
been a lot of concerns with just the
collection process for years. The the
response rate has been going down. um
since the pandemic not only in the US
but but but ultimately globally we've
got a lot of alt data out there also to
kind of support it. So I think we get a
decent picture. Um and all of us are
living through um you know our anecdotal
evidence if you will you know just kind
of walking around New York going to the
supermarket that all provides us with
insight. So I think we will get a good
picture of where um ultimately inflation
is. You know it might take a little bit
longer for the official data to get
there and then we can calibrate in our
minds what policy is supposed to be and
that's where the Fed discussion be
becomes really really important. if um
you know the hammocks of the world are
correct and they say that um we should
wait to see this inflation evolve and in
fact we're on this kind of hold period
at least for the next couple of quarters
um you can have some comfort that the
Fed is doing the right thing from that
perspective um if there's a push you
know really to cut to cut rates even
with the data that's pushing against it
that's when we wind up with kind of
concerns
>> moving from policy to to personnel
talking about Rick Reer the two Kevin
>> how are watching all of this unfold. How
much does it matter? You've seen that
short list and there is so much in that
ven diagram that these candidates share,
these finalists share.
>> How much will it matter who he picks in?
>> You know what? I'm I'm not that
concerned with it. Um, you know, I think
I think that we're looking at qualified
candidates. Um, certainly the
administration has a view of where it
thinks rate should be and those
candidates embrace that. Um, but you
know, we've got the Federal Reserve Act,
which has lasted decades in terms of
really um uh creating a structure that's
supposed to of that's supposed to be
able to keep the Fed immune from uh, you
know, political, if you will,
interference into the process. I think
that that's still out there. Um, you
know, Hammock and and really the Schmidz
of the world being vocal is part of that
process. Um and you know so long as we
have that structure out there um you
know I think that the independence
aspect of the Fed becomes something that
investors uh are still comfortable with.
>> Marvin, thanks so much for your time
this morning. Marvin Low of State Street
and happy holidays to you. Let's get an
update on some other stories we're
watching this morning. Here's your
Bloomberg brief with [music] Yahara
Anan. Hi Yahra.
>> Hi Amarie. A senior Russian general was
killed after a bomb [music] exploded in
his car in Moscow. An invest in
investigative committee reporting in a
telegram statement [music] the
lieutenant general was killed when the
device planted under his car detonated
early this morning. [music] Russian
investigators say the involvement of
Ukrainian special services in the
killing was one potential theory [music]
being examined. Ukraine has not
commented.
Meanwhile, President Trump's top
economic adviser says a Supreme Court
ruling against the [music]
administration's tariffs regime would
create a major administrative problem.
Judges are currently weighing a legal
[music] challenge to the tariffs Trump
has imposed on dozens of nations. Kevin
Hasset says the challenges of refunding
the levies [music]
should deter the court from ruling in
that way. And Blue Origin made its 16th
[music] human space flight over the
weekend. The sixperson crew included the
first wheelchair user [music] to reach
space and one of SpaceX's first
engineers. The 10-minute space flight
took the crew just above the Carman
line, a recognized location between
Earth's atmosphere [music] and outer
space that sits about 62 mi above sea
[music] level. That's your brief Emory.
Thanks so much. Yahire and Hire will be
back with more in about 30 minutes time.
Coming up next, putting pressure [music]
on Venezuela. I did see that this is
another ship that was bas basically
operating in the black market. And so
there have been a little bit there's
been a little bit of black market
activity in the oil sector to go to
sanctioned countries and to get them
some oil.
>> Up next, former House Services Committee
Chair Patrick Mckenry. You're watching
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music]
Good morning and welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. I'm Ann alongside David
Gura. This morning, let's take a look at
what's going on in financial markets.
suit of equity futures pointing to a
higher start at the open. Potentially
investors are excited about a Santa
Claus rally. [music] This is the final
full trading week of the year cuz we do
have Friday trading [music] and it's the
second week to the end of the year. So,
we're wrapping up 2025. [music]
All the space this morning though is
going on in the commodity sector. You
have the intensification of what's going
on in Latin America with Venezuela,
which is what's pushing crude prices
higher, and also this [music] flight to
safety when it comes to gold, copper,
silver. That has to do a lot about how
the market [music] views what the Fed's
next move is going to be, but also as
well, David, this geopolitical risk.
>> Nuances to all of this, all three of
these precious [music] metals, but um
gold really stands out after just the
run it's been on this year. Yes, that's
a startling move today, but up 70% this
year thereabouts. Uh again, it's that
flight to safety, but again a kind of
generalized fear here of sort of what's
going on in the world. We've been
talking about Venezuela, talk about
Ukraine, I'm sure, in in a few minutes
as well. Still overarching a lot of the
the moves that we've seen [music] in the
market,
>> right? And the Trump administration
might feel like this is a moment where
they have that flexibility [music]
because the market, if you look at what
the IA says about the at least the oil
market going into next year, [music]
there's a glut of 4 million barrels a
day. So they might view this as the most
opportune time to put that pressure on
Venezuela. and under surveillance this
morning putting the pressure on
Venezuela. [music] It's mounting.
>> I did see that this is another ship that
was bas basically operating in the black
market. And so there have been a little
bit there's been a little bit of black
market activity in the oil sector to go
to sanctioned countries and to get them
some oil. Uh and they're getting that
oil in order to avoid, you know, the the
reforms that we think would make the
countries a better place. And so it's
not a lot of oil compared to world
supply. And so I don't think that people
need to be worried here in the US that
prices are going to go up because of
these seizures of these ships. [music]
>> Here's the latest. The Trump
administration intensifying its blockade
against Venezuela. The Coast Guard
targeting and pursuing a third
sanctioned oil tanker off the country's
coast. Joining us to discuss is Patrick
Mckenry, former chair of the House
Financial Services Committee and a
Bloomberg contributor. Thank you so much
for joining us, Patrick. Really great to
have you on this week. I'd love to ask
you how you think your former colleagues
in Congress view what the administration
is doing when it comes to Latin America.
>> Well, the first question here is what
does it do to prices? That's the the
most pertinent political issue here
domestically. Number one. Number two,
we've had rogue regimes um to our south
uh for decades that have bucked uh US
administrations. So, in many respects
with uh the Trump administration saying
they're pulling back from the world,
there is still an expression and need
for American politicians to show
strength that our military might does
matter. It can be effective. And this is
one expression. Um and it does have
wider support among Republicans and
Democrats on Capitol Hill uh than is
currently being expressed. When it comes
to price, Venezuela is at present not as
important to the oil market say it was
pre Hugo Chavez era. It's less than 1%
of global supply. But at the same time,
do you think that is the reason why the
administration feels like they can
intensify this pressure on Maduro?
>> No. This is this is a decade in the
making, frankly. And um Venezuela and
Cuba are inextricably linked. Uh one
funds the other and they each prop each
other up. And so this is viewed by I
think you would see uh Marco Rubio and
and his State Department group uh look
at this as long needed work and
necessary work uh right in our own
backyard.
>> I I'm going to pick up on something that
Ambry asked you which is sort of about
the broader South America strategy here
because I think that's something a lot
of Americans probably haven't figured
out or thought a lot about yet. So we
saw the US's commitment to Argentina
earlier uh this year. We've seen the US
embracing Bolivia, another country in
South America that the US have kind of
shunned for for several recent years
because it had a leftist leader in
place. Do you have a holistic
understanding of what the US is is
trying to do here, not not just in
Venezuela, but in the region overall?
You talk about these rogue regimes of
what the plan is going forward.
>> It's popular in connection with our
closest neighbors and uh biggest trading
allies. Um this is uh this is always
complicated when we're talking about
foreign affairs with the Trump
administration. What does it mean? What
are the layers to it and so on. Um but
what we've generally seen is this
administration wanted more Central and
South America to us economically and
militarily. Uh that is a different
approach than we've seen in decades uh
in Washington. uh but long-standing
since the Monroe Doctrine that we want
to understand our neighbors and and be
their greatest strength and ally uh and
long neglected uh in in recent decades.
So it is a long it's an expression of a
longer term uh American strategy uh of
moing our neighbors to us.
>> I imagine you have many former
colleagues in the house who are eager
for the president to talk more about
domestic issues. He did deliver that
speech last week where he talked about
affordability seems to have come around
or been pushed to come around to talking
about it more. What does that message
need to sound like to to your ears going
into to 2026 to kind of re reclaim the
narrative here going forward about this
administration's uh efforts when it
comes to sort of writing the economy in
the country?
>> So Joe Biden tried the uh don't believe
your lying eyes uh message to the
American people. What you feel is not
really legitimate. That's not that's not
a good response from any politician,
much less the president of the United
States. So, President Trump should not
try to recreate that failed message.
Number one. Number two, he should
acknowledge the reality, which is prices
are higher now. Uh, and that is putting
a pinch on the American people. Uh, and
when prices outstrip uh wage increases,
the rising prices outstrip wage
increases, the American people feel
terrible. Um, and so he's got to
acknowledge that. and then and then
forcefully uh land the administration's
policies and communicate on landing
those policies. We still have tariffs
unresolved and and trading agreements
unresolved. We still have the new tax uh
cut to be implemented in the coming year
and regulatory relief. There's a lot
that the president could talk about,
needs to talk about of administration
successes. Uh but to tell the American
people don't trust what they think
they're experiencing isn't going to be a
good winning message.
>> A lot to talk about, indeed a lot to
tout. And I was struck on the show last
week talking to a lot of folks from Wall
Street who said, "Look, this is a year
in which in light of what you've just
mentioned, the the benefits of this tax
and spending bill coming into effect.
There are things that could be quite
advantageous for for a lot of Americans,
and yet we haven't heard a whole lot
from from the White House in terms of
what they should be prioritizing in
terms of what they should be
communicating to the American people.
What has the most promise as you see?
Where should the White House be leaning
in?
>> No, look, President Trump's political
strength is his view of is is the his is
e economic strength. Sorry.
[clears throat]
Um
he his capacity in the first term to
turn the administr to turn the whole
administration on renewing and reviving
the economy became uh his strongest
political attribute and that brought him
back to the White House. the facts that
he the fact that he'd fix the economy
and make people feel better and get
people on the right track. Uh so he's
got to forcefully communicate all of the
things that they've done to make life
better for the average American and
they've done a ton. Um but uh so much of
that has to be realized so the economic
indicators uh start uh going in a
positive direction for the average
American and how families live. Um and
he's got to talk about that on a
repeated basis uh on a sustained way.
>> A dozen or so House lawmakers have
already announced that they will not run
for reelection. The latest being Elise
Stefonic who also decided she's not
going to go for the New York governor's
race. How challenging do you think this
is going to be for Republican leadership
in the House?
>> Well, the the loss of Representative
Stefanic is devastating. I mean, she's a
highly talented uh young, dynamic uh
elected official. Huge opportunity uh in
her future. Um and uh and for her to say
she's stepping aside from politics is
devastating for Republicans for sure. Uh
and I'm that that is the the one
announcement has made me quite sad uh
this year. But she's got a long life
ahead and I think we'll come back uh to
politics at some point. the the the
announcements of retirements from the
House show that uh the House has not
gotten done as much as they wanted to
get done this year. Longest government
shutdown. Everything was jammed into one
big beautiful bill. Not much else got
done legislatively. Uh this is a a bad
sign about the workplace environment on
Capitol Hill and how the electeds view
it. Um and the final piece is what
Republicans view as their opportunity to
maintain control of the US House next
Congress. Those are the facts. Uh we got
a year uh before I'm sorry, 11 months
before the next election. Uh so a lot
can change in that time. Uh but at this
uh at this end of year and going into
the Christmas season, not a great time
for for House Republicans uh and a bad
time as uh politicians are reassessing
whether or not to run again.
>> Patrick, thanks so much for your time.
Merry Christmas to you. That's of course
the former House Financial Services
Committee Chairman Patrick Mckenry. I
love how he ended that there culture.
>> Yeah, it sounds like a lot of
disgruntled employees right now. Yes.
>> In the House.
>> Yeah, absolutely. And then you've got
Mike Johnson whose tenure as as speaker
has kind of been thrust into this kind
of concerning light. Um, of course, a
huge part of his job is identifying
candidates to run in these races going
forward.
>> And how difficult is it going to be for
this White House to work with
potentially a Democratic House and
potentially a Democratic Senate?
>> I cannot imagine there's much eagerness.
>> There was a Washington Post uh piece
this this weekend about the Secretary of
the Treasury [music] and how he really
goes after these individuals on Twitter
and is a bit more bombastic than some of
the others in the past. He might
actually have to start working [music]
with some of those individually war and
Twitter fights. Yes.
>> All right. Coming up, more on the
program next, we're going to head over
to Europe. Oliver Crook joins us on what
is going on in Russia.
Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance 6:30 a.m. here in New York.
I'm Amber Herd alongside David Gura.
Let's check in on [music] where markets
are trading this morning. Normally
supposed to be a quiet week. You do see
equity futures higher going into the
open this morning potentially getting
that Santa Claus rally. All the action
though, and I say it's supposed to be a
quiet week, but a lot of action is
happening across the commodity [music]
space. One, there is this flight to
safety. Things like gold, silver,
copper, all higher. Some of them hitting
records. You see gold there, $4,48
an ounce, up 1.6%.
Silver this morning up nearly 3%.
There's geopolitical risk and also what
the market is pricing in next year when
it comes to the Federal Reserve. And
then of course we have what is going on
in Japan, how that's impacting global
sovereign debt. You have the 10-year
higher in Japan. JGP's up six basis
points. [music]
Potentially, traders are trying to
digest still what happened on Friday
when Japan hanked interest rates. What
does this mean though for the US yield
[music] curve? It is higher as well. We
have the 10-year up in the United States
up about two basis points, [music]
4.16%.
Let's get you a check on some individual
movers this morning. Danny Burgerer
joins us for more. Hey, Danny. Hey,
Marie. Tesla shares their higher by just
over 1% this morning. The Delaware
Supreme Court over the weekend
overturning a ruling from the Delaware
Chancery Court, that is the lower court,
that overruled Elon Musk's pay package
back in 2018. [music] That was a 2024
decision. Well, now that that has been
overruled, Elon Musk is finally going to
get the big package. 300 million options
is about what's on store in store for
him. That's equivalent to just under
$140 billion of a payout. So, good news
for Musk. Shareholders like it maybe
keeps Musk happy and him on board. So
those [music] shares moving higher. Also
on the move this morning, Clearwater
Analytics, those shares up 8.1%. It is a
take private coming for this fintech
company from Promera and Warberg Pinkis.
Uh the price on it is about 10% higher
than the close on Friday. So the premium
just starting to creep up there. We're
up about 8.1%. The price tag on that
deal [music] $8.4 billion. Finally
rounding things out with some of the
ride share apps. It's the competition
for taxis and driverless taxis. Uber and
Lyft are going to be teaming up with
BYU, the Chinese company, on offering up
driverless taxis in the UK. They're
going to start testing them in London in
the first half of 2026, and they hope
that they'll be commercially available
by the end of the year. So Uber up as
much as 1.7%. Dan [music] Marie and
Danny, you're in London, so potentially
you're going to be testing those out for
us. Let's get you an update on what were
under radar this morning. Gold and
silver, as we've been mentioning,
climbing to fresh record highs as
traders add to bets on further Fed rate
cuts. Investors also watching the
escalating geopolitical tensions in
Venezuela and between Russia and Ukraine
that are contributing to this rally.
Elsewhere, the NEC director Kevin Hasset
expressing concern over the Supreme
Court's upcoming ruling over President
Trump's tariff policy. Hasset saying a
ruling that overturns the tariffs would
create a major administrative problem
for refunding the countries affected.
David, I'm not sure if you caught he he
was on a few Sunday shows this weekend.
I thought the most interesting though
was on Face the Nation. He couldn't
really answer directly where the tariff
refunds would be going. Is it countries
or is it companies that then potentially
would impact US consumers?
>> Yeah, I'm stuck on that phrase
administrative problem because it's one
you'd think that they would have had to
think through at this point already.
Yes, they filed all these briefs and
argued before the Supreme Court, but
this would be really seismic were this
to happen. And so the fact that they're
kind of still figuring out this very
granular level what would happen, I
think is significant here. We expect
that decision could be as soon as in the
coming weeks. Um and again it would have
a massive impact here not just on the
president's tariff policy but on the
economy overall as kind of figure this
out going forward
>> and also if AIPA is struck down they're
going to go about tariff policy just
using other avenues
>> another administrative policy they have
to
>> but it'll just take so much longer and
then what impact does that have to how
companies decide to digest the new
potential policies where the rates may
settle and what should or should not be
passed on to consumers. And I think, you
know, it speaks to the fact that there
is this kind of level of complacency I
think among many countries and companies
now. They feel like they've kind of
ridden this out. They understand what
the tariff rates are going forward here.
But as you rightly point out, were this
to happen, I think we're kind of
entering a new phase of this
conversation, a new phase of this
tariffs war, this trade war. And it's
going to have again profound impact on
not just countries themselves, but
companies as well who feel like they've
kind of figured this out.
>> Yeah. I don't know how many times I've
heard in the past few months, we are
past peak tariff uncertainty. Well,
potentially might come bite us again in
2026. Also on our radar this morning,
the US holding talks with Ukraine and
European officials that US envoy Steve
Wickoff described as productive and
constructive. Leaders discussing the
current 20point peace plan along with
the outlook for security guarantees.
Let's bring in Bloomberg's Oliver Crook
for more on this. Oliver, of course,
also in Miami
discussing alongside the Ukrainians and
probably in separate rooms was Krill
Dmitri, the Russian envoy. Are we
getting any closer potentially to a
trilateral between these three
countries?
>> That's what the US is putting forward.
They're suggesting that they could set
up a meeting between the Ukrainians, the
Americans, and the Russians in order to
advance those sort of discussions,
trying to get that sort of uh deal
fasttracked as the Trump administration
has made very clear what they would
like. Whether or not we've actually
reached that point, I think, is another
question. I suspect we're not quite
there yet. That being said, a lot of
these discussions have gone underground
ever since we got that initial 28 point
plan. We don't have as much clarity on
what the 20point plan includes and this
is something that will be closer to the
final document. We should say we have
not heard a great deal from the Russians
over the last couple of weeks. We hear
sort of bits and pieces from time to
time. We heard that the from the
Ukrainian the American side that the
talks this weekend were uh constructive.
There are reports that the Russians were
saying that they were not that
constructive. So again, it's hard to get
a very sort of clear view on where
things stand as we look at to that sort
of Christmas deadline. And I think it's
fair to say that we're probably not
going to have the major breakthrough the
Trump administration would like to see
by Christmas. A
>> lot of Europeans watching all of this
unfold with with interest, what's
happening in uh Miami. And we had the
approval of that 90 uh billion euro loan
package not drawn from those frozen
Russian assets. Give us your sense of of
sort of how Europeans are looking at
this this process, not a trilateral one
yet, kind of happening in this kind of
dual bilateral fashion. Um what they're
thinking as it's unfolding and sort of
their level of engagement in the
process, if any. They would like to be
very engaged in the process and it's a
good sign that they have at least
emissaries that are kind of there in the
sidelines where we don't know how
actively involved they are in those
discussions but there was a time not so
long ago David when they were just not
even in the room weren't even being
thought about now when they're bringing
this 90 billion euros to the off to the
negotiating table in the form of that
sort of joint debt backed loan and we
can talk a little bit about that because
there's a lot of interesting discussions
to have around there that sort of snuck
in on Friday they are at least a a sort
of person that is at the table we know
that the United States administration
the Trump administration has put a lot
of pressure on Europe not to seize those
Russian assets. It's hard to know if
that was part of the thinking as to why
they didn't move on it. How much of it
was intimidation from the Russian side
and all these sort of claims and these
threats that the Russians were making
about certain uh legal actions they
could take on Eurocclear and other
European nations. But we went into that
meeting on Friday hearing from the
chancellor of Germany who's really
supposed to be one of the most
influential people in the room saying
that we are going to seize these assets.
There is no plan B and we got a very
different plan coming out of it uh about
18 hours later after all of those
negotiations.
>> Oliver, a senior Russian general was
killed after a bomb bomb exploded in his
car in Moscow overnight. Do you have any
update on who's responsible for this?
>> Yeah, we don't have a sort of open uh
the Ukrainians have not claimed this.
Obviously, this would be if it were the
Ukrainians about the third uh sort of
high ranking uh Russian general that's
been killed uh within Russia in this
last year. And we've seen a lot of sort
of different inventive tactics that have
been used by the Ukrainians, not just in
the last couple of weeks, but obviously
since the beginning of the war, but
we've seen also in the last couple weeks
a lot more focus on the shadow fleet of
the Russians. A lot of these ships being
disabled, one in the Mediterranean for
the first time um over the last couple
of days. We've seen more and more of
these little sort of drone submarines.
One of them took out a submarine that
was docked in a Russian Black Sea bay.
That was the first time, I believe, in
military history that that had ever
happened. So, the Ukraine's being very
sort of inventive. We understand that
this fairly high-ranking Russian
official was killed this morning in
Moscow after a car bomb, no yet been
claimed. Of course, the Russians are
pointing the figures toward the
Ukrainians. Bloomberg, thank Oliver
Crook, thank you so much. Of course,
he's our chief European correspondent.
We want to turn now to the auto
industry. Ford is taking a $19.5 billion
charge tied to a sweeping overhaul of
its EV business after struggling for
years to make it profitable. The
company's CEO, Jim Farley, spoke with
Bloomberg's Matt Miller, Roma Bostic,
and Katie Greld.
it was really the customer changing
their decision. You know, we saw hybrids
really take off last couple years like,
you know, last month uh about well, we
had 30% increase in our hybrid sales.
We're now number three in our I think
we're 80% uh hybrid uh market share in
trucks. So, we saw this happening. We
also saw the more expensive EVs, you
know, really suffer in the market and
the more affordable EVs to do better.
Um, and then the last couple months it
really was remarkable. The EV market in
the US went from 12% in the industry to
only five. And that that really in the
end was uh the big decider for us. But
look, we're we're going to 50% electric.
It just be it's going to be hybrids and
e-revs and electric. It won't be just
pure electrics.
>> So, um, you know, every good trader
knows you got to cut your losses. um
when you recognize there's an issue,
you're doing that in in this sense with
the F-150 Lightning as we now know it
and the T3 project, the next generation
truck that would have been built in
Tennessee. Um but you're able to, I
guess, salvage some assets and as a
result, you've raised um your
profitability forecast from six to$6.5
billion for this year in terms of EBIT
to 7 billion. Where are you gaining an
opportunity from this, Jim?
Well, great question. This year in the
short term, it's really our cost of our
company. Our quality is getting better
and so our costs are much more
competitive. In fact, the Nollis
aluminum has cost us more like two
billion, but we're still raising
guidance. Look, for this announcement,
Matt, it's really about moving to more
profitable vehicles. You know, we're
going to make in Tennessee now an
affordable pickup truck. I think it's
going to really surprise the market.
These are customers we know, not a lot
of guesswork in terms of the revenue,
the cost we need to get out and a more
affordable van in Ohio. So, these are
going to be better investments for the
company profit and all those hybrid
sales. You know, those are really
profitable vehicles for us as we
basically deploy hybrid across our
lineup. But we're also going into the
energy storage business to 20 gawatt
hour. You know, that's a that's a big
move. We're going to convert our battery
plants from automotive batteries to
energy storage batteries using LFP.
That's also a big pivot that is profit
positive for the company. Jim, with
regard to that pivot and the energy
storage side of it, do you anticipate
any concerns by the White House, by the
administration here in the US that
[snorts] you are partnering effectively
with the Chinese company in order to do
that?
>> Well, look, it's our plant. It's it's
our people and we designed it that way.
We have a licensing agreement, but we
feel like it's better to build these
batteries in the United States with
American workers, with our own Ford
workers and understand the IP than to
import them like they're being done
today. The best way to compete with the
Chinese is to get close to the IP and
then run the plants at Ford. When Ford
knows how to build things, we know how
to do this. So, I think this is much
better than for America. We're talking
about thousands of incremental jobs
versus importing batteries like we see
today. Much better for America.
>> Well, to continue on the uh energy
storage business, you mentioned that
this will be profit positive for the
company. And when it comes specifically
to that new business line, how long
would you expect before that alone
becomes profitable?
>> Yeah, great question. Well, we're we're
busy now. We have to move very this this
business moves much faster than the auto
business. We're converting our our
Michigan plant as we speak uh with all
new equipment to make energy storage
which is slightly different than
automotive with the LP. And then we're
building a whole new plant converting
Kentucky 1 to 20 gawatt hours. And and
that will be landing in late 27. We're
going to be selling and servicing
batteries, not just the cells as a
contract manufacturer. are actually
going to be selling the huge storage
containers to utility companies and the
AI data center companies in 27. We're
already out there quoting this business
now. We know what kind of price points
we need to get to for it to be
profitable and uh this is not our first
rodeo as a manufacturing company. It
>> it looks like Jim that we've gotten new
regulations or or seen older regulations
scrapped both here and overseas, right,
in terms of um what's necessary. I'm
wondering um if the administration here
in the US and the EU have helped you and
other car makers really um serve
customer needs better because we're
seeing your rivals also bring back
products um that that were previously
canceled like the Hemi over at
Stellantis um that customers wanted.
>> Well, look, I I think you know I was at
the White House with the president. He
announced the revised KF cafe standard.
you know, anything we can do to get the
regulations look more like customer
demands. Look, we're going to 50%
electric. There are no gas guzzlers in
our future at Ford, but we we want to
offer customers choice. I think that's
what the president is trying to do is
just to give people choice. We're going
to have this affordable electric vehicle
built in Kentucky. I think it's going to
be a huge hit with Americans, but it's
going to be part of a broader portfolio
with choice. And we're seeing the same
thing in Europe. We're saying seeing the
same thing around the world. Look, we
all want to lower our CO2 footprint as
industry. That's what Ford's going to
do. Going 50% electric, but we need to
give customers choice and then use our
manufacturing flexibility
uh to to go with where the customers
are, and that's what this announcements
is about.
>> That was Ford CEO Jim Farley speaking to
our colleagues earlier. Let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here's your Bloomberg brief
with Yahira. Hey, Yahira. Hi. Hey
[music] Anmarie, the trade dispute
between the EU and China is continuing
to bubble up. Beijing [music] has levied
tariffs of up to 43% on some dairy
imports from the EU [music] following an
anti-subsidity probe. China launched an
investigation focusing on fresh and
processed cheese [music] in August of
last year. And Brussels later challenged
the probe by requesting consultations
via the [music] WTO.
Meanwhile, the Trump administration is
defending its move to pull several
pictures from the latest release of
documents [music]
related to Jeffrey Epstein. An image of
a desk drawer with a number of photos,
including one showing President Trump,
was among those removed, from the
department's [music] website before
being restored. Deputy Attorney General
Todd Blanch says it was initially taken
down out of concern for Epstein's
victims. [music]
And Disney's Avatar: Fire and Ash
debuted at the top of the Chinese box
office, [music] earning almost $ 58
million in its opening weekend. It's the
second highest debut for a foreign title
this year after Zootopia 2, another
Disney film. China's box office [music]
take has topped $7 billion this year,
exceeding last year's total. That's your
[music] Brian Marie. Thanks so much,
Yah. Up next, waiting for a signal. The
Fed and the rest of us will really be
waiting to look at the data from
December onwards to get a sense of what
the real signal is here.
>> Signal or noise. Abigail Watt of UBS
weighs in next. You're watching
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. It is the second to final
week of the year and let's take a look
at where markets are trading [music]
this morning. Futures are pointing to a
brighter start today. Potentially a
Santa Claus rally. We do see the 10-year
yield up. A lot of this is stemming from
what's going on in Japan. Japan's
10-year JGP up [music] six basis points.
Gold hitting a fresh record today, up
1.6%.
We see a lot of the commodities drifting
higher, silver, copper, geopolitical
issues at hand. On top of that, as well
as the market really digesting with the
Fed's next move in as well as that
geopolitical risk moving into the crude
[music] space, even though Venezuela
does not count for a ton of global
supply, there is a little bit of concern
there. And [music] you do see WTI crude
up about 2%. Under surveillance this
morning, waiting for a signal.
I would be wary about thinking that the
data we've gotten, you know, since the
December meeting is really going to bias
the Fed significantly more doubbish. The
Fed and the rest of us will really be
waiting to look at the data from
December onwards to get a sense of what
the real signal is here.
>> Here's the latest. Recent economic data
boosting odds for January rate cut from
the Fed. While Cleveland Fed President
Beth Hammock believes monetary policy is
in a good place, telling the Wall Street
Journal, quote, "We can stay here for
some period of time until we get clearer
evidence that either inflation is coming
back down to target or the employment
side is weakening more materially."
Abigail Watt of UBS joins us now.
Abigail, I'd love to get your thoughts
on that. What do you think of what Beth
Hammock said over the weekend?
Especially interesting that she's making
these comments because she's coming now
onto a voting member of the Fed.
Yeah, look, I think Hammock's remarks
are are kind of in line with where she
has been for some time. I think, you
know, this sense of the balance between
the weakness in the labor market that
we've seen and potentially the the kind
of pass through of tariffs into
inflation kind of yet to come. And I
think I think essentially um you know,
Hammock's making the case that the FOMC
has a little bit more room to pause
given the the sequence of 325 basis
point cuts that they have delivered this
year. Um, so I I think generally the
signal that we're getting from from
Hammock is pretty consistent with the
signal that she's had for for kind of
much of the year. And as you say, I
think, you know, we will see a shift in
the committee, but I think it's likely
we'll see kind of some hawks coming out
and some hawks coming in. Um, I feel
like the core of the committee at this
juncture, you know, is probably
continuing to to think a little bit
about the kind of downside risk to the
labor market and also trying to get a
good read on inflation, which I'm not
sure they will have gotten from the
release that we got last week. Well,
about that. We had the Fed chair saying
he was going to look at those data with
a skeptical eye, and I'm curious if your
eye was likewise skeptical when you
looked at those CPI data and sort of
your broader sense of sort of where
inflation is now and sort of what data
are going to be most important to you
here in the in the weeks ahead.
>> Yeah. So, I think I think um a a
skeptical eye a careful viewing of the
data is really important at this
juncture. I think, you know, one of the
things we can look at is we can
understand the disruptions in in these
various surveys. we can understand
exactly kind of what the sign of that
bias might potentially be. And I think
when we look at the CPI data of last
week, obviously the clear issue was the
the kind of lack of price collection
data for October. Now the the BLS
handled that in a couple of different
ways. So they did use this kind of carry
forward imputation which was essentially
kind of assuming a 0% change in October.
And so when we think about the potential
bias there, we think that could have
downwardly biased the print that we got
last week. Um, and so our sense is that,
you know, to get a good clear reading on
inflation, I think we need to see kind
of a couple more prints. Now, some of
that bias will likely take a little bit
of time to correct potentially over the
December print, the January print, and
then into April as well for things like
owner's equivalent rents, which are
sampled every 6 months. So, I think it
could take a little bit of time to get a
really clear read on kind of the
inflation dynamic. But I do think, you
know, our expectation is that, you know,
January tends to be a time where you see
relatively strong um annual price
resetting. So, we think we could see a
relatively kind of strong January print
and potentially some of that kind of
catch up coming through given the lack
of October data. I think the other data
that we'll be watching closely,
obviously, we'll get the durable goods
report for October, and I think it's
going to be interesting to see kind of
what we're seeing in terms of the
dynamics for um for investment. Um it's
obviously been, you know, a key part of
the investment um story this year has
been the strength in equipment
investment and and that should be able
that should give us a little bit of a a
read in terms of how that strength has
continued potentially into the fourth
quarter.
>> I'm curious how you and your colleagues
are thinking about immigration, the
policies that have been put in place and
the effect that they're having on the
economy thus far and and will have here
in 2026.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, I mean, obviously, we've
seen a potentially a shift lower in
terms of population growth in thinking
about kind of the labor supply um
effects, but when we when we look at the
the labor market data, we we don't
necessarily see kind of strong impacts
of that yet. You know, one of the things
that I would be looking to is thinking
about the potential for wage
differentials across sectors just given
the kind of certain sectors where you
see a higher share of of kind of
immigrant workers versus kind of uh
native population. And when we think
about that, you know, you've not
necessarily seen a significant shift or
divergence in terms of wage trends
across those sectors. So I think that's
the kind of first place that I'd be
looking to see potential impact from
that. You know, when we think about the
slowing we've seen in the labor market
this year. You know, we do think much of
that slowing is actually related to the
slowing you've seen in the broader
economy and potentially a slowing for
demand for labor and less so some of
these kind of supply impacts on the
labor market. When it comes to
unemployment trends, do you think part
of this has to do with the unemployment
rate ticking higher because the
government shutdown or do you see
materially a lot of weakness?
>> I think it's a really good point to
raise. You know, I this is one of the
things about reading carefully this data
and understanding kind of what's been
collected, what's not, and what could
potentially be impacting impacting the
the the read we're getting. And when we
look at the the labor market and we
think about the unemployment rate move
higher last uh week, you know, when we
saw the unemployment rate move up to
4.6% 6% in November. We think around 10
basis points potentially of that move
could be related to what's happening in
government. Now part of that could be
the the kind of shutdown effect
potentially furled federal workers kind
of misreporting in the household survey
as unemployed. However, we do think you
know potentially there could be some
risk that this is things uh this is
federal workers from the kind of
deferred resignation program that took
place earlier this year potentially
showing up in the household survey. And
I think which of those drivers it is
kind of matters because the the BLS's
kind of furled federal workers kind of
showing up in the household survey
should potentially kind of correct
itself whereas those that are showing up
in terms of the deferred resignation
program that actually is a shift higher
in terms of the the number unemployed.
So I think it's going to really matter
and I think hopefully in the December
report we'll get a better read of kind
of which of those is is kind of
dominating there. But regardless of this
kind of government effect, we still
think the unemployment rate would have
rounded up to 4.5%. So you [music] would
have still seen an incremental move
higher in the labor mark in the
unemployment rate, sorry. And I think
with that, you know, I think it does
kind of [music] continue to signal that
we we see the kind of weakness in the
labor demand at this point.
>> Abigail, thank you so much for your time
this morning. Abigail Watt of UBS.
Coming up next, Nanette Jacobson of
Wellington Management, Sarah Bianke of
Everore, and Shuita Kajura of Wolf
Research. [music] This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
>> [music]
>> There is still more inflationary
pressure in the economy. You need to
look at more data points. We have these
highly unusual jobs reports [music] and
highly unusual inflation numbers.
>> The labor market report was not too bad.
>> Sentiment data just hasn't been helpful.
Maybe this is still a rate sensitive
economy. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and Anmarie Hordern.
>> Good morning and welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance live from New York City.
I'm Amry Hordern alongside David Gura
this morning. Jonathan Pharaoh is still
on paternity leave and Lisa [music] is
off for the week. It's the second to
last week of the year and what normally
be a very quiet holiday season. Right
now, you have Muhammad Alaran talking
about that at Substack overnight.
Traditionally, a quiet holiday period
prevails will depend on high stakes
geopolitics [music] and the content of
thin market liquidity with the US
intensifying its blockade on the
Venezuela regime, the market bracing for
the next move in what many view as a
quote endgame strategy. And I think
that's why it's interesting the
president will [music] be speaking later
today at 4:30 p.m. potentially David
giving us an update on what is going on
in Latin America.
>> Yeah, this story continues to develop.
So, we had the first seizure of that
tanker. Now, [music] there have been two
more that the US has sort of shown
interest in. ordered one of them and is
chasing another over the course of the
weekend. Um I [music] think there's an
open question of sort of what's
happening now and what's the strategy
going forward here not just in Venezuela
but in Latin America in the hemisphere
more [music] broadly.
>> Absolutely. Also China this morning
coming out talking about how this is the
United States bullying. So a lot of that
sanctioned crude potentially um has
China's fingerprints on it.
>> Yeah. Not of the highest quality but
important to China nonetheless.
Certainly important to China, important
to Cuba as well. And as we heard from
Patrick Henry in the the previous hour,
um there are these regimes that have
been depending on it and this is
certainly [music] straining them.
>> And what is going on in Venezuela right
now? And to Muhammad's point, a quiet
period. Normally, you know, we don't
have a ton of data this week. We will
get US GDP. [music]
Normally a quiet period, the
geopolitical risk might mean more, which
is why in financial markets this
morning, all the action right now is in
the commodity space. Whether it's
silver, copper, or gold, we [music] are
seeing fresh records. You're seeing this
flight to safety when it comes to what
is going on in the commodity space.
There you have gold up 1.7%. [music]
Crude this morning up 2% to David's
point. It is not a ton of crude [music]
that Venezuela accounts for the uh
global supply especially was looking to
a glut for [music] 2026.
But this just shows that the market is
starting to pay attention to a little
bit more of these geopolitical risk as
we start to close out the year. [music]
Coming up this morning, Nanette Abahof
Jacobson of Hartford Funds as tech fuels
gains across global markets. Sarah
Bianke of Evercores as the
administration grows anxious over
tariffs and Brienne Lynch of Equities as
IPO show resurgence in the new year. We
begin the 7:00 hour with tech power and
gains as investors bet on a strong
finish to the year. Nette Abahof
Jacobson, global investment strategist
at Hartford Funds writing, quote, "The
US has great earnings, but valuations
are a constraint. opportunities outside
the US, especially Japan and emerging
markets. Nette joins us now. Nette, it
is such a great morning to speak to you
because one thing David and I have not
touched yet this hour at the top was
what is going on in Japan. You have
JGB's [clears throat]
moving higher up six basis point on the
10-year in Japan. That is bleeding
across the sovereign debt market around
the world. If you see Japanese yields
continue to rise, is it still a place
you want to invest?
>> Yes. um even if yields are rising,
they're still among the lowest in the
world. So, a little bit higher yields is
not a big deal for Japan. And the reason
that they're hiking rates at the short
end is because uh they've had some
inflation, but inflation is a good thing
for Japan. They've been in deflation for
20 years.
>> Do you think potentially though this can
be an issue for other markets because we
are seeing this impact the sovereign
debt markets of other countries?
Yeah, it's a great question because uh
yields in Japan, they've been low for so
long and it could have a ripple effect
across global markets. Uh so far it
really hasn't. Uh but we're certainly
keeping a close eye on that because it's
an important market and it could set the
tone for other markets. But as you know,
the Federal Reserve just cut rates and
the market expectations is that they'll
cut rates another couple times in the
coming year.
>> Um, this has been, suffice to say, a
great year for stocks here in in the US,
a record setting year, an even greater
year for for stocks overseas. And I'm
curious if you see that story continuing
into the new year, and sort of what the
factors are going to be kind of shaping
that narrative in 2026.
>> Yeah, it's one of the most exciting
things that I see uh for 2026. Let me
just level set for a second. Uh in
international stocks, so XUS returns
were 31% relative to the S&P 16%. So 15
percentage points higher than the US. Uh
so obviously in 25 there were great
performers. It's very unusual because
we've gone for about 15 years with the
US outperforming.
uh but there are multi-period years when
international stocks outperform and I
think this is one of them. Uh you've got
a lot of great factors uh that are
propping up international stocks for the
coming year.
>> I'm curious about kind of how
complimentary the US and and emerging
markets are at this point in time. So I
think of how we began this year with a
lot of concern over US policy, the
impact that that was going to have on
countries around the world. As Amir and
I were talking about a few minutes ago,
there's this sense that we're kind of
post tariff turmoil or things seem to
have evened out more. there's more
clarity when it comes to to trade
policy. Do you agree with that? And and
I'm curious of how you think US policy
still manages to influence or weigh on
these emerging markets in the year
ahead.
>> Yeah, I think it's a fascinating time
and it's really worth uh financial
advisors and and just generally people
to kind of do some year-end cleanup is
what I say. Um and that's because the US
has had you know a great run and we've
seen the 16% returns uh and the global
backdrop uh is healthy. We've got global
GDP running at 3% inflation
uh is stabilizing. Even the tariff
environment that you talked about David
is settling down. So, uh, that kind of
macro backdrop again is really good for
international equities. Uh, but you've
got two more things going for Japan and
EM. You've got terrific uh, earnings
revisions for both uh, regions. And in
the US, we're at 12-month forward pees
of 23 times, which is almost two
standard deviations rich. So I just
don't see that much room for multiples
to keep delivering though earnings still
can. So, we're not ditching US equities,
but we are saying that if you've been in
a, you know, something like a 6040
portfolio balance, um, that's grown over
the past 3 years to 7030 and at least
you should take some of those extra uh,
funds and move them into international.
And as I said, Japan and EM I think are
the best spots.
>> Nette, when you look at your optimism
for next year, you have this list of 10
things. Something that caught my eye was
there's reason for cautious optimism on
China. What are you excited about when
it comes to China?
So, you know, China has been challenged
by uh the real estate, the property
bubble that has bust. Uh but as we know,
China has been incredibly competitive
with the US. Um, and you know, we had
the deepseek moment earlier in the year,
uh, when there were questions about the
AI race in general. I think that that
question is going to be prevailing in
investors minds and we're going to
continue to see a lot of dispersion in
the tech part of the US market. Um,
China is an innovator. They're a
competitor. And so it is you know I
think uh uh dangerous to underestimate
them. Uh so that and China is 30% of the
emerging markets uh index and so I think
that uh they are a formidable
competitor. Uh but the other regions
that I'm looking at that are really
interesting are Korea and Taiwan and
even India now is looking like in terms
of policy and earnings is perking up. Uh
those are the four biggest regions in EM
and I think there are some good
prospects for all of them.
>> When it comes to China though are you
not concerned about more friction
between Washington and Beijing?
>> Uh absolutely. And you know that is the
biggest geopolitical tension in the
world uh and something that we're
monitoring. The issue for an investor
though is how do you time that? You
really can't. Geopolitical risk is
always with us. But to try to time it is
pretty much impossible. So that's why
when I speak to clients, I really
recommend taking a longer term outlook
and actually using those moments of
volatility to add exposure to the areas
where you don't have exposure. Uh and so
that I would use if there are tensions,
I would use that volatility as an
opportunity to actually add risk.
>> We haven't talked about Europe yet. Let
me end there and just ask you sort of
how you see things playing out there in
the year to come. Obviously a lot of
comm commitment investment in fiscal
spend here in in 2026 going forward. Um
a lot of people talking about
opportunity in defense and national
security. Um are you likewise bullish on
on that? Where do you see opportunity in
Europe in in the year ahead?
>> Yeah David it's so interesting because
Europe there's been a lot of excitement,
a lot of optimism. Europe did has done
very very well this year. uh you know
among regions I am less excited about
Europe than I am about Japan and
emerging markets. Uh Europe does have
the fiscal stimulus coming through but
their growth is you know pretty much
zero uh even in Germany. The spots that
are really interesting are in Italy,
Spain, Portugal, southern Europe. Uh, so
prefer Japan and EM, but I think
international in general is a great
place to be and you might get the
currency bump too if the Fed cuts and
you get a weaker dollar.
>> Great point, Nanette Abah Jacobson of
Hartford Funds. Thank you so much for
joining us and merry Christmas and happy
holidays to you and your loved ones.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Yhira is back
with your Bloomberg brief. Hey, Yahara.
Hi Anorie. The US is pursuing a third
oil tanker near Venezuela as President
Trump intensifies an oil blockade
against Nicolas Maduro's [music]
government. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the Bella 1 tanker is a
panameanian flagged vessel sanctioned by
the US. The attempted intradiction
[music]
follows this follows the boarding of the
Century Super Tanker early Saturday and
the [music] Skipper on December 10th.
Meanwhile, China criticizing the latest
US weapon sale to [music] Taiwan, saying
it raises the chances of conflict
between the two superpowers. Last week,
the US approving arm sales of up to 11
billion, [music] including missiles,
drones, and artillery systems. And gold
is trading at record highs this morning,
trading above [music] $4,400 an ounce.
Escalating geopolitical tensions and
bets on further US rate cuts are adding
to are adding momentum to the precious
metals best annual performance in more
than four [music] decades. Silver and
copper are also along for the ride
trading at all-time highs. That's your
brief Emmy. Thanks so much. Up next on
the program, the White House versus the
Supreme Court.
>> We really expect the Supreme Court is
[music] going to find with us. Uh, and I
also think that if they didn't find with
us that it's going to be pretty unlikely
[music] that they're going to call for
widespread refunds.
>> Sarah Bianke of Everore joins us next.
You're watching Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. I'm Annur alongside David
Gura. This morning, Jonathan is still on
paternity leave and Lisa is off for the
week. Supposed to be a relatively quiet
session. This is of course the week
[music] of Christmas. The president of
the United States has declared that
actually there's going to be more
federal holidays or the markets.
>> [music]
>> Sorry for you if you're sitting at home
behind your screens right now. The
markets will still be open on those days
before and after Christmas. But the
market does seem to be looking for at
least on the equity space this Santa
Claus rally. We do have S&P 500 futures
up 3/10en of a percent. [music] US
10-year yield up about two basis points.
A lot of this is bleeding to through and
what what is happening in Japan. [music]
You have JGB's yields moving much
higher. This is impacting the global
sovereign debt market. But really all
the action this morning, David, has been
in the [music] commodity space. Copper,
silver, and gold all ripping higher.
Crude is also higher, 2%, even though
you and I have both been pointing out
Venezuela accounts for less than 1% of
global supply. But it's the end of the
year. [music] And the one catalyst that
is left on the table, especially as we
don't have a ton of data, is this
geopolitical risk.
>> Yeah, absolutely. So, I think that's
very much the story at play here when
you look at these precious metals. Uh,
of course there's so much concern over
what's going on in the southern
hemisphere. Again, looking for [music]
more clarity on that from the president,
his secretary of defense, secretary of
war. You take your pick uh later today
when they're going to speak at the White
House. There's also this whole part of
this which has to do with the Fed and
will the Fed cut rates x amount of times
here in the new year. So, you have these
kind of dueling narratives playing in
the precious metal space. The crude oil
story is so fascinating because yes,
Venezuela right now, such a small
percentage of the oil that's circulating
around the world, but I think if you
were to talk to the president, he'd say,
look, there's a huge opportunity here
for [music] Venezuela to be producing a
lot more. Certainly, it's under the
stricture of sanctions that's keeping it
from doing that. Um, there I don't want
to say that that's the motive for all of
this, but it's certainly [music]
something would be born from a change in
regime in in Venezuela.
>> I think Mike Worth of Chevron would
probably potentially also agree with the
president. potentially this is an
individual that could become this
[music] key diplomat in 2026 as they're
the only US company still operating in
Venezuela. You mentioned the Fed. It's
another good point cuz we're going to be
speaking to Steven [music] Myron in the
next hour. An individual who definitely
has a different view right now on where
inflation is going, where the labor
market is going. Potentially an
individual who only has 30 days left at
the Fed or and change because his his
term is up. But over the weekend, lot of
reported that the president is [music]
still conducting these interviews even
though everyone thinks potentially it's
going to be one of the two Kevin. He sat
down with Governor Waller [music] and
while he's in Mara Lago for the next two
weeks and Kevin Hasset said there's
going to be a ton of meetings with the
cabinet down in Palm Beach. He's also
[music] going to be sitting down with
Rick Reer. This is a huge question mark
going into 2026.
>> We've had this list of five finalists.
It's amazing to watch how they've kind
of shuffled or been reshuffled and we've
learned about that through the press
over the last few weeks. So it was just
a few days ago that we thought this was
really [music] coming down to Kevin
Hasset and Kevin Worsh. Kevin Worsh of
course who was interviewed for this job
during the first Trump administration as
somebody who very clearly wants to have
that job. Look, I talked about this
during the last hour. I think if you
look at that list, if you were to put
them in a ven diagram, obviously lower
rates is something that unifies all of
these candidates. So [music]
very curious to get a better
understanding of sort of what the
president's looking for here in terms of
the conversations that he's having with
with all of these finalists. unifies all
these catalysts right now. But in the
past, not all of them have been for
lower rates. Most notably, [music] Kevin
Walsh, who is a known hawk kind of
becoming a dovish now, the fact that he
is in the running potentially [music] to
be the next Fed chair. All right, under
surveillance this morning, the White
House versus the Supreme Court.
>> We really [music] expect the Supreme
Court is going to find with us. Uh, and
I also think that if they didn't find
with us that it's going to be pretty
unlikely that they're going to call for
widespread refunds because it would be
an administrative uh problem to get
those refunds out to there. But
basically, whoever paid the tariff, like
actually cut the check uh to buy the
thing uh would be the person who would
be getting the refund if there were one.
>> Here's the latest. The White House still
awaiting a decision from the Supreme
Court on the legal challenge against
President Trump's tariff agenda.
Bloomberg's own Lauren Dazinski joins us
now from DC for more. Lauren, thank you
so much for joining us. Did you get a
clear answer yesterday from Kevin
Hasset, at least in your mind, on how
the administration is thinking about
IEPa and if the refunds do happen to go
through, who's getting those refunds?
>> Yeah. The interesting thing to me is
that Kevin Hasset suggesting that it
would be hard to do a refund. That that
is a salient argument for the Supreme
Court. The Supreme Court is ruling on
whether or not Trump wrongly imposed
these tariffs, specifically through the
International Emergency Economic Powers
Act. It's wonky, but it's this very
specific way in which Trump argued that
he is able to do this. And whether or
not it's hard to undo it really is not
the key question. Again, it's something
that the administration argued when they
went before the Supreme Court in
November, but the idea of can we or can
we not is not the legality question that
really is coming into play here.
>> That's such a good point. And we heard
from Kevin Hasset there saying he he
believes the administration believes
they're going to prevail um in the
Supreme Court u case. There is so much
here that would have to be hashed out
were it not to go in their favor. And
I'm curious sort of the sense that you
have of how they've kind of gamed that
out. We were chatting about this a
little earlier on in the show. Um, you
know, if who would they have to refund
to, what would that process be like? How
would they pivot to these other tariffs?
What would this mean for other
companies? What sense do you have, if
any, of the kind of granular way in
which they would have to go about
answering some of those questions?
>> Yeah. And has it kind of flicked at that
a bit yesterday in that they said that
they'll essentially have to pay the
initial folks? And I'm butchering what
specifically he said, but the sense is
is that there's going to if they would
have to repay, there would be some sort
of payments where that pot of money
comes from. Um, obviously there's that
initial payment side, but this
administration hasn't exactly been
excited about the prospect of
potentially having to pay back those
tariffs. And so the idea of clawing back
that money and giving them back to the
plaintiffs or whomever uh the
administration ultimately decides that
they need to pay back. Also, it's a
question of whether or not the the
Supreme Court has to say this is who the
administration must pay. So the the
uncertainty that really hangs over these
tariffs specifically and the Supreme
Court's ruling which could come as soon
as the end of this year which is the
clock is ticking
>> of course and David part of the problem
is I think to Laur Lauren's point is the
administration is using this as too big
too important to their policy to fail.
Yeah, I mean absolutely. This has been
like the keystone policy of this second
term would have been one of the
keystones of the the first term as well.
Uh look, there's been a lot of happy
talk I think from Kevin Hassan and other
advisers to this administration that
again were this to be overruled by the
Supreme Court, they could very easily
move to this other thing. You know, well
just how complicated that process would
be. Again, it's it's so granular yet so
crucial here to the the politics
>> and how complicated that process might
be for companies. Lauren, if AIPA is
struck down, do you have any sense of
immediately what the administration
wants to do? What avenue they're going
to go down for using other potential
executive orders or 232s, 301's. What
kind of legal avenues are at their
disposal?
>> Certainly tariff is Trump's favorite
word, and he does have other options. He
has section 232. He has 301, but these
are much more complicated measures. The
reason why these AIPA tariffs have
worked is essentially Trump just gets to
declare a national emergency use that as
essentially the guise that he can then
impose those tariffs. But a 301 and a
232 and the other tariffs that the
administration can impose require other
steps. They have to do an investigation.
the outcome of that investigation which
has to take a certain window of time and
then once the investigation is done then
the administration determines yes we
have grounds to impose these tariffs no
we don't I mean it is newsworthy when
the US says that they are investigating
tariffs when when we craft those hot
headlines we say the administration is
preparing for possible steel tariffs or
you know whatever sectoral um tariffs it
is but it's not these broadbased country
bycountry tariffs which is what Trump
imposed on you know quote unquote
liberation day in April which is what he
used these AIPA tariffs for preparing
for possible let's stick with that but
pivot to a different topic if we could
and that's preparing for possible land
strikes in Venezuela continued
interdiction in in the Pacific um get us
up to speed on what we might hear from
the president and his cabinet member
secretary Pete Hexath later today when
they talk about Venezuela this is a
story that um escalated over the course
of weekend certainly has been escalating
over these last few weeks. Your sense of
where all this is head and what you're
going to be listening for when you hear
from the president today.
>> Certainly, President Trump has made it
very clear that he is not a fan of
Nicholas Maduro and his government in
Venezuela and is going to use whatever
tools available to keep that pressure
up. what we saw this weekend with the US
uh seizing essentially another
Venezuelabound oil tanker. This one
specifically wasn't sanctioned which was
another escalation. Um you know the
President Trump is you know we're
essentially the thing that I'm looking
for to get to your question is will the
US announce land strikes? Is the US
actually going to go onto Venezuelan
soil and go after the Maduro regime? I
think the the oil pressure that the
administration is specifically doing and
again what we saw this weekend is
creating an economic pressure point for
Maduro that you know we're already
seeing impacts in currency where access
to hard currency in Venezuela is
becoming more difficult and so that
could create domestic pressure on Maduro
but of course Trump loves leverage and
he loves the fact that he can also
pursue some sort of military component
and so will Trump announced a announce a
ground strike in Venezuela this
afternoon we don't know um but certainly
we will be listening closely for that
>> Lauren thank you so much for your time
Bloomberg's Lauren Dazinski joining us
from Washington DC and that point the
president will be speaking at 4:30 p.m.
with Pete Hakes, his defense secretary,
also the Secretary of the Navy. Everyone
thinks it's going to be about Venezuela.
That is really the elephant in the
foreign policy debate right now.
>> Absolutely. We did have that speech last
week though in the diplomatic room at
the White House. And I think there was
some speculation that the bulk of that
might even center on Venezuela. Of
course, he gave just glancing mention to
it over the course of those remarks. So,
I think that that anticipation going
into that speech, which was so focused
on the economy, economic achievements,
and plans going forward, has kind of
carried over to this when those
expectations have only gotten bigger.
And you wonder if there's a little bit
of a cloud when it comes to
affordability. The one place the
administration has been successful in
touting is lower gasoline prices. And
right now you do have oil higher because
there is this concern [music]
about what is going on in Latin America
seas. All right, coming up on the
program, Shuetta Kajora of Wolf Research
with our 2026 tech outlook. Plus, Danny
Burgerer is back with our morning
movers. You're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. We are 2 hours away from
the cash open. Let's get you a look at
what is going on in markets this
morning. Equity markets moving to
[music] the upside. You have NASDAQ 100
futures up 6/10 of a percent. We're
going to look a little bit deeper into
the SE tech sector in a moment and what
is on the horizon for 2026. Really the
action this morning though, it should be
a very quiet week, [music] second to
last week of the year. We have Christmas
this week and a lot of people are
actually off for the holidays, but some
of us that are still here. The market
right now is [music] focused squarely on
commodities. Gold, silver, copper, all
hitting fresh records [music] today. And
it comes as a number of catalysts. One
is the geopolitical risk Dave and I have
been talking about all morning. The
president will have remarks with Pete
Hegathth, [music] his defense secretary,
at 4:30 p.m. What is going on in
Venezuela is moving prices [music]
higher, including on crude, but also the
fact that the market is starting to
price in two rate cuts for next year. Uh
potentially definitely one, but hopeful
for two. Also going on in the bond space
this morning, you could see [music]
yields are up higher across the curve.
All of this is extending for what is
going on in Japan. And Japan's 10-year
yields have shot up on concern that
monetary authority will have to keep
raising rates to quell inflation. And
that is moving sovereign debt markets
around the world. [music] Now, as I
said, two hours away from the cash open.
Your morning movers with Danny Burgerer.
Hey, Danny. Hey. And Marie. Tesla
continues to move to the upside this
morning, up 1 and a3%. Over the weekend,
the Delaware Supreme Court overruling a
lower court who had it invalidated Elon
Musk's 2018 pay package. That ruling was
last year. So with this overruling, it
means that Elon Musk will now get his
300 million options on Tesla worth about
$140 billion. Keeping Musk happy, keep
shareholders happy, shares up 1 and a3%.
Elsewhere, a little bit of M&A to round
out this year. Clearwater analytics.
This has been the name on many people's
radar for getting a buyout. This take
private happening from Premier and
Warberg Pinkis. $ 8.4 billion [music] is
the price target on it. That means the
premium for the share versus Friday's
close is just about 10%, we're not quite
there [music] yet. We're trading just
under it. We're up about 8.4%. Finally,
rounding things off with Honeywell in
the last hour giving an update. They've
spun off one of their advanced material
business. So, [music] they've
re-released their earnings without it,
and it's a downgrade. It's a downgrade
to their forecast for the fourth quarter
for the entirety of the year. They also
say they're going to take a one-off
charge due to litigation that they're
facing from the private jet sharing
company Flexjet. So Honeyware Honeywell
shares down 1.1%. Damn, [music] thanks
so much Danny Burgerer. We're back with
you for a little bit later. On our radar
this morning, President Trump
intensifying a blockade on Venezuela.
The Coast Guard boarding one tanker and
pursuing another within weeks. A first
capturing a vessel. Geopolitical
tensions, as David and I have been
talking about all morning, driving
commodity prices higher throughout the
morning. And Cleveland Fed President
Beth Hammock telling the Wall Street
Journal that rates can stay where they
are for now, saying, quote, "Until we
get clearer evidence that either
inflation is coming back down to target
or the employment side is weakening more
materially." Stay tuned to surveillance.
You don't want to miss this
conversation. Fed Governor Steve Mein
joining us at 8:30 a.m. Eastern.
Interesting because he has a very
different view right now for inflation.
He thinks that because of housing, it's
actually going to quickly come back down
to the Fed's 2% target.
>> Yeah. I borrow a phrase from Christine
Lagarde. Uh Beth Hammock of the belief
that the Fed's in a good place uh right
now figuring all of this out. Uh look,
she's content to wait. Steven Myron is
not obviously content to wait and is has
a lot of urgency in the policy positions
he's taken thus far. And I think it'll
be fascinating to talk to him just about
what we saw emerge from that meeting,
the kind of quiet dissense, the degree
to which J. Pal is now presiding over a
committee and a group of policy makers
more broadly than that who are
disagreeing about the path forward here.
And I think that kind of fractiousness
is a fascinating thing to talk about.
And it's not just Beth Hammock. We also
heard speaking to the press on Friday um
John Williams, the New York Fed
president, quote, "I don't personally
have a sense of urgency to need to act
further on monetary policy right now
because I think the cuts we've made have
positioned us really well." All of this
is also happening as the Fed chair is
basically a lane dock.
>> Yeah. And we kind of saw a new I would
say J. Pal at that conference press
conference last last last week. Um yeah,
he's he's kind of reckoning with the
fact he's got three meetings left now in
his tenure as Fed chair. As we've been
talking about this morning, there's this
swirling conversation about who's going
to replace him. And fascinating for me
too as we have that conversation is is
to talk about the role that the Fed
chair has. I think there's this kind of
indication that we get from the
president that the chair has this kind
of outsized role in determining Fed
policy. Know it is of course by
committee and I think whoever the
president picks is going to have to be
somebody who can try to do as J. pal has
done find some uni unonyimity here among
policy makers going forward and we'll
see how challenging that's going to be
here in the months ahead
>> or hurting the cats a less diplomatic
way of putting it but that's really what
it is opening eye reportedly squeezing
better margins out of its paid products
this year also watching this story from
the information saying the company
improved its compute margin an internal
figure measuring the share of revenue
after the cost of running models for
paying users now let's stick with tech
Wall Street hoping for another
blockbuster year from the sector Kajura
of research joins us now for more.
Shoueta, I just love to get your take on
where we are right now with financial
markets view on tech. There was a bit of
a blip last week these debates over AI
and we're in a bubble or not. How do you
see the sector ending off the year?
>> Well, good morning and thanks for having
me. Um, I would say between now and the
year end, we think that the uh market is
likely going to remain rangebound to
maybe slightly trend a bit higher.
there's a little bit of greater level of
investor conviction and even confidence
in some of these AI based names whether
it is the mega caps within our coverage
or outside but really the top eight to
10 names when we think about that that
are carrying the I rally to sort of hold
it's their valuation and where they are
as investors gain a little bit more
conviction on not only the the
profitability of these assets uh over
the next few years in terms of what
their return profile would look like
against their investments but also in
terms of their topline growth in term
whether they'll be able to monetize all
these capex spend that they're doing and
if there's going to be enough demand to
be able to generate uh a healthy level
of uh topline growth and we do think
that there will be I think that
investors are coming around it that said
we do think that it's going to probably
still remain a little bit of a volatile
market
>> volatile this debate continues to rage
on what are your top picks
>> yeah our top picks right now are um
Amazon as our top large cap pick
followed by Meta and followed by Door
Dash. We think that all three of these
names have uh highest likelihood of
upward estimates revisions not only for
their top line but also their bottom
line and then um in terms of their
ability to gain market share in whether
it is digital advertising or Amazon
cloud as they get more of these
partnerships whether it is penetrating
anthropic or getting um open AI and we
think that they are going to uh
successfully partner with some of the
other larger enterprises as they as they
drive capacity and they've already said
they want to double their capacity by
the year end 2027. We think that'll
really inflect AWS cloud growth which is
why it is our top pick. Um and then
finally on Door Dash we think it is
underappreciated how much upside and not
2026 but really 2027 IBIDA offers as
they uh they drive more of their um
profitability from autonomous delivery
and they don't have to pay these
dashers. So those those would be our top
three. I'm curious how you're framing
out the the promise of AI here in in the
new year. So, it seems like in 2025,
we've talked a lot about all that's
buffeting AI, uh the dramatic spend
that's taken place to kind of build the
infrastructure to support AI. And then
there's this kind of sense of promise
that AI could have, and we even had the
Fed chairman engaging with that topic uh
during his press conference talking
about the the potential for it to change
productivity uh change the economy going
forward here. How do you see it playing
out amidst the conversation we've been
having over the last few weeks just
about growing concern over capex and and
as you mentioned the concern that you're
not going to get the kind of returns
that you'd need to for that to to pan
out long term.
>> Yeah. Well, there are two parts uh of
this debate. The first one is on topline
growth. First of all, will these
hyperscalers and will these mega cap
names actually see the returns on the
capex spend that they're making? And um
as a lot of the management teams at
those companies have said the risk of
underinvesting is uh arguably higher
than overinvesting. And so the question
is when do we see these returns? With
some of them it's a little bit more
clear than the others. And the examples
would be Amazon and Google. We are
starting to see greater amount of
returns in really specifically with
their cloud spend as it accelerates and
we can start of start uh putting some
margin numbers against them uh to kind
of get a uh a heroic return on
investment capital profile of where this
could actually go on the profitability
side which is not only is the capex
increasing but also their opex
increasing. I guess one of the other
trends that we will see in 2026 and 2027
is more of these enterprises not only
leaning into cloud spend but also what
you were alluding to is driving
automation within their own companies
and that in itself should drive um uh
productivity and so some of these larger
cap names whether it is Door Dash or
Uber or Meta or Google or Amazon all of
these should benefit from driving
automation internally at their
organizations which should offset let
some of these large OPEX or depreciation
led um opex spend and capex spend uh
offset as they drive automation whether
it is their fulfillment centers or
internal operations to drive
productivity and we will start seeing as
we see headcount growth start to flatten
out or moderate even if they don't do
head um headcount reduction
>> um we're going to have a conversation
here in a few minutes about the IPO
market and the prospects for there being
more companies going public in the
future. I'm curious at at that level
sort of how you see the marketplace in
in 2026. Do do you expect there's going
to be more consolidation in the tech
space? Do you do you expect this as a
moment when we'll see more tech
companies feeling comfortable going
public? Uh I know that there's been some
who believe that there companies are
staying longer in the private markets
simply because they they can and why
would they why would they leave?
>> Yeah. Yeah, that's a great question. Uh
we think that the uh public markets will
start uh becoming a little bit more uh
aggressive. First of all, we think that
the markets will probably hold up. We
think that the earnings growth are at
least for the S&P 500 will likely be in
the double-digit percentage range. Um,
and that should allow valuation to hold
in the low to 20 times multiple on a
forward multiple basis. Um, and that
should be enough for markets to start to
continue to keep grinding higher. Given
where markets are today, we think that
there are several tech companies that
are pretty well positioned to go public
and raise capital and uh take advantage
of it. So, we do think that the public
markets will start looking a little bit
more uh a little bit more healthier.
We'll start seeing more of these
companies uh coming into the public
markets in 2026 than we did in 2025 in
the past couple of years.
>> Sha, thanks so much for your time this
morning. Schwetta Kajura of Wolf
Research. Sticking with tech, we also
are getting some breaking news. This
coming from Reuters. Nvidia has told
Chinese clients that it aims to ship its
second most powerful AI chips to China
by midFebruary. David, that's very soon.
Um this is according to Reuters talking
about the H200
ship shipments. Remember this was a huge
debate in the White House. According to
this report, Beijing has yes to improve
any of those purchases. The timeline
could I guess at then point maybe shift
cuz Beijing has to I guess give the
green light given the fact that they've
been shrugging off the other Nvidia
chips that were built specifically for
China.
>> Yeah. Shipments expected to total 5,000
to 10,000 chip modules uh according to
this report. And you're right. I mean it
it I go back to that most recent
conference call that Nvidia had on the
heels of its last earnings report. Um
they were kind of proceeding as though
China wasn't going to buy any of these.
That's very much been sort of the way
that they've been operating going
forward here. Yes, it's up to China to
give the green light on on this
particular set of shipments. But on all
of this going forward as you so well
know and and I think that that's made it
very tricky for both Nvidia and for the
US kind of to navigate this. Yes, they
want the demand to be there but it's
unclear if it's actually is going to be
there. And is the administration going
to use this on and off like a light
switch when it comes to potentially any
sort of trade frictions with China? It
seemed that they were able to get to
this decision based off two things. One,
they desperately needed those that rare
earth. They needed China to start buying
those soybeans. Remember, you do have
farmers that are complaining and this is
an election year. And on top of that,
this huge debate in Washington whether
or not you get the United you get the
rest of the world addicted to US
technology or if you don't and you
shield that US technology, does this
mean you're just giving in to your
adversaries to developing their own?
>> You know this better than I and you've
covered a lot of these meetings, but
it's so interesting to me to hear you
talk about the way that this is being
used as a kind of leverage and of course
rare earths was that for China and one
that kind of left the US in this
incredibly vulnerable and difficult
position. This very well could be the
thing that gives them a bit more
leverage. the US more leverage in these
conversations.
>> If the US had those rare earths, would
we be even having this conversation
right now? It's a it's a great point.
All right, let's get you an update on
other stories we're watching elsewhere
this morning. Yahira is back with your
Bloomberg brief. Hey, Yah.
>> Hi. Any CBS News pulled a planned 60
minutes episode on Venezuelan men being
deported to an infamous prison in El
Salvador just 3 hours before its
broadcast. The segment [music] was
switched after the new editor-inchief
Barry Weise requested multiple changes.
The correspondent on the piece says the
decision was [music] quote political.
Meanwhile, ride hailing companies Uber
and Lyft are each teaming up with
[music] BYU to test driverless taxis in
the UK. Uber said its pilot program will
start in the first half of 2026 [music]
with commercial services expected in the
city before the end of next year.
Separately, Lyft will also carry out
tests in the UK next year pending
[music] regulatory approval. and Netflix
refinancing part of a $59 billion
[music] bridge loan to support its
potential acquisition of Warner Brothers
Discovery. Netflix agreeing to a deal in
early December that values Warner
Brothers studio and streaming assets at
more than $82 billion, but hurdles
remain to complete the acquisition.
[music] That's your brief and thanks so
much. Up next, next year's IPO market.
>> Equities by definition are
forward-looking. So I think a strong
healthy economy uh is helpful for
companies that are looking to list.
>> Brian Lynch of Equity Zen joins us next
looking at the IPO market for 2026.
You're watching Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. As we head into the market
open, we are seeing equities [music] in
the green this morning, looking for that
Santa Claus rally. S&P 500 futures up
nearly 4/10en of a percent. [music] You
have the 10-year Treasury yield up
nearly two basis points. This comes of
course as we are seeing JGB's Japanese
yields moving higher and that is having
an impact [music] across sovereign
global debt markets. The action though
as David and I have been discussing the
entire morning [music] is in the
commodity space. First you have crude up
more than 2%. The president will be
giving remarks this afternoon at 4:30
p.m. alongside [music] his defense
secretary Pete Hegath. A lot of
speculation this is going to be about
what the United States is doing when it
comes to [music] Venezuela. They are
intensifying that blockade and that is
why you're also seeing gold up. Another
fresh record for gold. It's now up 1.7%.
Also silver as well as copper. So you're
seeing commodities really have this lift
[music]
as we head into the end of the year
under surveillance this morning. We're
also looking at next year's IPO market.
>> Whenever companies are thinking about uh
IPOing, they're looking at the
macroeconomic factors. Of course, they
prefer to IPO in an environment that is
looking like it has a strong growth
trajectory ahead and uh equities by
definition are forward-looking. So, I
think a strong healthy economy uh is
helpful for companies that are looking
to list.
>> Here's the latest. First time share
sales in the US pulling in more than $46
[music] billion this year, setting the
stage for a banner 2026 led by a
potential blockbuster Space X debut.
Brienne Lynch, head of market insights
at Equities Enden, joins us now for
more. Brienne, thank you so much for
joining us this morning. I want to first
get your take on 2025 before we move
into 2026. Was this really fueled by
potentially this deregulation push we
saw in Washington DC and this appetite
of individuals who are waiting for some
of the politics to dissipate to really
get into the IPO space?
Thanks for having me. You know, I think
deregulation was part of the story. It
certainly helped a lot of the crypto
names that went out in 2025, but what we
saw more broadly was just demand for
fast growing innovative technology
companies, especially after the drought
of IPOs we had the past few years. We've
seen this year be the biggest year for
IPOs since 2021. And the same trends
that have driven success for these IPOs
are really what are also driving more
investors into the private markets who
want to invest in these companies before
their $10 billion names.
>> Do you think 2026 is going to be bigger
than 2025?
>> I do and that's because we had a few um
fits and starts throughout the year. You
know, the IPO market slowed down a bit
in the spring uh around the time the
tariffs were announced and then in the
fall we saw a slowdown with the
government shutdown. And that's really
just added to this deep pipeline that
was already building of mature IPO ready
companies. So when we look at the
companies on our radar, these companies
are on 12 years old on average. So older
companies, the last average funding
round being a series F. So these are
companies that have raised several
rounds of capital and are certainly
companies that 20 years ago would have
likely already been public. Let's stay
there with these kind of older
companies, older than they would have
been before, companies that seemingly
are very comfortable being private
companies. What is the case that has to
be made to them to go public at this
point in time given they've been able to
get the private financing they need
seemingly uh have seemingly been content
staying private for as long as they
have. Um talk a bit about the catalyst
that needs to be in place there to get
them to kind of consider going public.
>> Sure. And you're absolutely right and we
see it with several IPO candidates for
next year. they've raised rounds of
funding in just the past few weeks or
months. So, they're not going public
because they need access to the capital
markets. It's something that they
already have. Uh what's really driving a
lot of the need uh to go public is more
on the liquidity side. So, yes, you can
do tender offers. There's other
liquidity mechanisms for individual
employees or investors within the
private markets, but you really don't
get this widescale liquidity event until
an IPO. So there's still, you know,
something attractive about that. And
then there's the access piece. In most
cases, you need to be an accredited
investor to invest in private companies.
To open access to growth, to the retail
market requires an IPO. So that's
something that's also driving these
companies. But you're exactly right. Sam
Alman was interviewed just a few days
ago and said how being a public company
would probably be annoying. There's a
lot of annoyances that come with having
to be um under much more regulatory
scrutiny, having to file um much more
frequently. So, a lot of companies are
looking to delay that as long as
possible while they're growing.
>> I'm going to stick with catalyst for for
another question here. I know that in
the IPO market, companies that are
considering going public, waiting to go
public, are looking to see how a
catalyst performs. That's what's going
to get them back into the game. So what
needs to happen or sort of what what are
these companies considering going public
looking for in terms of a sort of metric
for success?
>> Yeah, I mean we saw this past year that
there were a few massive IPO pops. You
saw it with Circle Figma. I don't think
that's necessarily the vote of success
that comp other companies need to
follow. Um but I think what companies
have been kind of watching to see is
what type of stories are resonating and
what's the mix of growth and
profitability that is showing to um you
know lead to success for companies to
follow. So what we've seen from this
year is that the companies that are most
successful are one profitable and two
exhibiting 30% plus growth. Those types
of growth rates are harder to find in
the public markets. Um, so certainly
something that makes some of these IPO
candidates more attractive. You have
data bricks, for example, on our list.
They just announced that they're growing
at over 50% year-over-year, generating
4.8 billion in revenue. Those types of
metrics are going to be attractive to
investors.
>> You have a popular popularity score when
it comes to these IPOs for 2026. Besides
data bricks, what else are you looking
at?
>> Sure. Cerebrus is on our list the most
popular uh IPO candidate. So they create
chips that power AI. So think of them as
an AI infrastructure play, a direct
competitor to Nvidia. Um and just last
week it was rumored that they could file
as soon as this week for an IPO. And
this is a company that initially filed
for an IPO last fall. um pulled their
listing or pulled their filing rather
last month while they raised a
simultaneous uh billion dollar funding
round and now are looking to come to the
market um with updated financials um an
updated picture on their growth and just
given demand for all things AI and the
fact that they are a core player in the
AI infrastructure space uh there's been
a lot of uh interest in the company in
the private markets and I think that'll
translate to the public markets
>> very quickly here how much competition
is there among exchanges I know we saw
some companies kind of moving from from
one to another here in recent months.
How are they kind of vying for the
attention of in the business of these
companies going public?
>> I mean that's their business and really
what what we've seen in the mix is more
leaning towards the NASDAQ versus the
NYSE. Um but I think there's compelling
reasons to list on either. Um, so more
of the tech companies we've seen leaning
towards the NASDAQ, maybe more of the
consumer names um, going for the NYSE.
Personally, we're next door to the New
York Stock Exchange, so always fun to
see an IPO there. Um, but certainly
they're vying to be um, build
relationships with these companies
earlier to have that relationship ready
when they're IPO ready.
>> Brienne, thank you so much for your time
this morning. Brienne Lynch of Equities
and looking at the IPO market for 2026.
We're gonna get more on the IPO market.
Don't miss Jeff Thomas, the global head
of listing as NASDAQ's capital access
platforms division. That's coming up at
400 p.m. Eastern [music] on the close.
Coming up in the next hour, the
conversation you don't want to miss.
Taking [music] place in about 30 minutes
time, Federal Reserve Governor Steven
Meyer. He's going to talk about how
[music] he thinks about inflation, how
he thinks about employment, and also
potentially some personnel changes. Will
he be still at the Fed after January?
[music] This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
Good morning.
>> The equity market story has become more
attractive for a lot of places.
>> We're forecasting 14% EPS growth for the
S&P next year, followed by another 13%
in 2027. [music]
While everything is very strong right
now, I think the risk is does something
happen in 2026 [music] that gives the
market pause.
>> Maybe the volatility is normal as we get
higher and higher at market altitudes.
>> I think the areas of the market that led
this bull market over the first 3 years
may very well not be the areas that lead
this bull market over its next three
years.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning and welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance live from New York City.
I'm Amry Hordern alongside [music] David
Gur. We thank him this morning. Jonathan
Pharaoh's on paternity leave still to be
back in the new year and Leah Lisa is
off for the week. It's the second to
last week of the year. Normally [music]
Muhammad Alarium was talking about this
the Substack. It's a very quiet week.
Not not a ton of data that matters.
That's not pertinent. Of course, there's
Christmas. The president's decided also
he's going to make some more federal
holidays even though there [music] still
will be trading the day before and after
Christmas. But there's a lot of concern
and speculation what's going on [music]
in the geopolitical space right now,
especially when it comes to Venezuela.
We are seeing a flood of capital go into
commodities and oil. And David, this
afternoon, the president will be
speaking [music] at 4:30 p.m.
>> He'll be there alongside his secretary
of defense, eager to hear sort of what
they have to say about what's been
[music] going on over the weekend in
Venezuela, uh, interdiction of one ship,
chasing another one, uh, what the plan
is for that going forward, and [music]
if there's plans beyond that, looking to
land strikes, perhaps a widening of this
conflict we see kind [music] of growing
uh, in Venezuela and off the coast.
>> What happens with Venezuela will be
something we'll be watching out this
afternoon. Later this hour, an [music]
important debate is happening at the
Federal Reserve and you're seeing really
a divergence of Fed, three descents at
the last meeting. One of those
dissenters who wanted the Fed to go for
50 basis [music] points in terms of
interest rate reduction is Steve Meyer
and he'll be joining us at 8:30. [music]
Very interesting time especially for him
specifically cuz his term ends at the
end of January.
>> Just a few weeks left here. An open
question. Does he stick around? [music]
How does the president kind of engineer
that if he wants to do that? eager to
talk to him about that, but also just
his perspective on inflation. As you
point out, it's sort of outmoded. It's
different from the rest of the voting
members of that committee. [music]
What does he see that others don't? How
does he think that should shape the
trajectory of the Fed's policy going
forward? Um, suffice to say a lot to
talk about
>> and potentially on inflation [music]
2026. We're going to get these rebates.
The Treasury Secretary is talking about,
you know, a massive wave, the best
rebates we're going to see coming in
2026. The president [music] wants to see
$2,000 dividend checks. do all this
potentially goose inflation, does he
have to start to put that into his
calculus?
>> Something with which the Fed sure
[music] did not want to engage at that
meeting. Sort of what would happen with
regard to those rebate checks, those
tariff rebate checks. Also, what might
happen if the Supreme Court rules
against the administration when it comes
to the tariff policy as a whole. So, uh,
a [music] huge amount of open questions
that the Fed and the administration have
to deal with.
>> Let's take a look at what's going on in
financial markets. We are seeing this
potential for Santa Claus rally. [music]
NASDAQ 100 is poised to wipe out
December's losses. is the S&P 500
futures on your board there up 4/10en of
a percent [music] as we geared towards
the opening bell looking to be opening
in the green 10-year yield 4.16%
up about [music] two basis points of
course this has to do with what is going
on in Japan as yields continue to rise
[music] in the Japanese bond market and
as David and I have been talking about
the entire morning all the action is in
the commodity space gold copper all
fresh records [music] as well as WTI
crude up more than 2% this Morning.
Coming up, Jed Edelbrook of Argent
Capital as tech lifts stocks higher.
Neil Duta of Renaissance Macro on
potential cracks in the labor market.
And of course, Fed Governor Steven and
why inflation may be closer to target
than many think. We begin this hour with
stocks rising as investors look ahead to
a holiday shortened trading week. Jed
Ellerbrook of Argent Capital writing,
quote, "The building blocks for the
stock market in 2026 are overwhelmingly
positive." Jen joins us now. Jed, thank
you so much for joining us. walk us
through some of those building blocks
because there's been a lot of cold water
thrown on the biggest names in this
financial market and that's of course as
everyone continues to debate whether or
not AI is for real or is it a bubble?
>> Yeah, it is for real. Um I think some of
the building blocks include um
double-digit corporate earnings growth.
Um President Trump's tax bill will
contribute a little bit to the e
economic growth in 2026.
Credit [clears throat] spreads are
tight. equity markets are near record
highs. Um IPO and M&A activity is uh
rebounding and and strengthening by the
month and so I think there's a lot of
you know positives there and I expect
stock markets to do fairly well in 2026
even coming off three really good years
in a row.
>> Jed, stick with us. I just want to bring
our audience some breaking news and
potentially you can weigh in on this.
What's going on in the media space?
Paramount is amending their offer, their
um amends their superior $30 a share
allcash offer for Warner Brothers.
Warner Brothers Discovery shares are now
climbing this morning um based off this
news and Ellison is guaranteeing $40.4
billion in revised Paramont offer. So
you do see here, David, this story is
not going anywhere. An absolute fight
for when it comes to Warner Brothers and
what is going on right now. And you
could see those shares, Warner Brothers
shares are up more than 3% in pre-market
trading. They did climb as much as 6%.
Paramount also higher.
>> Yeah, and this is this is crucial
because you saw Warner Brothers
recommending to its shareholders to
reject Paramounts and treaty here on the
heels of that Netflix offer. And so in
in this announcement, we have Larry
Ellison agreeing to provide an
irrevocable personal guarantee of $40.4
billion of the equity financing for the
offer and any damages claims against
Paramount. This was something that was
much vagger in the initial offer from
from Paramount. I think was a subject to
concern to the Warren Brother Discovery
board. Uh the sense that it it was
revocable before. There was a sense that
that if uh sort of Larry Ellison and his
family changed their attacker position,
they could pull back on that. It just
wasn't as a sure thing as what we saw
from Netflix. And so you're right, this
is a saga. It's been back and forth.
Earlier this morning, we got new detail
details from Netflix on sort of the way
they're structuring um the the loans,
the bridge loans that they're going to
have to take to make their offer. So,
both of these companies really
continuing a pace here as if this is
still very much their thing to get. Um,
what we know from Warner Brothers
Brothers still is that Netflix is the
the one with whom they've agreed to to
have this deal. A lot of time before
it's consummated,
>> a lot of time also shareholders need to
really be the one in terms of the final
word. The question I continuously have
is what makes more sense for the
regulatory approvals and potentially can
that sway some shareholders and
basically which way they want to write.
You have to think if you are Warner
Brothers, you are definitely the one
that is making good on this deal because
you have this bidding war right now. I I
want to get back to Jed who's joining
us. Jed, do you have any dog in this
fight when it comes to the media space?
When you see this deal, you know, being
brokered out in the public and the fight
over Warner Brothers, does it make you
potentially excited or optimistic about
the media space?
I think that this is giving investors an
opportunity to buy Netflix shares 20%
cheaper than they were six months ago.
So yeah, we we do not own Netflix shares
today. It's obviously a wonderful
business. It traded at a high valuation
6 or nine months ago. It's come in
lately. Investors are concerned that
they're going to have to borrow a lot
of, you know, fairly expensive debt to
finance this acquisition. But also, you
know, the Warner Brothers Studio is
exceptionally valuable and assets like
this do not get traded very often. So,
it's a unique and rare opportunity.
Netflix is interested. Um, and I'm
increasingly interested in Netflix
shares.
>> I want to pull back a little bit here.
Amry bringing up the fact that this
needs to get regulatory approval. And we
have kind of a a new member of the
regulatory committee or or kind of
paniply of regulators. That's the
president himself who's weighing in on
all of these matters. And so, again, to
to pull back here, this is a year in
which we've seen the United States, the
administration, uh, take an active role
in many tech companies. And I'm curious
from your advantage as you're assessing
companies, looking at them, doing your
due diligence, how do you think through
that level of involvement and what that
portends for 2026 and and beyond having
kind of the state taking a fairly active
position in in a number of these
companies.
>> Yeah, it is it [clears throat] is a a
much bigger factor now than it was 5
years ago. You know, political
influence, geopolitical influence on
markets. Um, as an investor, you need to
be on your toes and be ready for
surprises. Um, you also know it's it's
not over until the final whistle blows
in terms of these decisions and things.
I see Nvidia this morning looks like
they might be getting closer to market
access for their H200s in China with
shipments, you know, hoping to begin in
scale in February. Uh, we're still two
months away from that. So, while it's
good news, we're, you know, we should we
should be be cautious and careful until
the actual first shipment happens. Um
but yeah, United States administration
very very active especially in
technology um area these days and uh
investors need to be ready for surprises
and the unexpected.
>> Be ready for all of that. I'm curious
sort of how how confident you are in the
outlook for trade policy and tariffs and
the the effect perhaps the weight that
that's having on on tech companies here
in the new year.
>> Yeah, obviously inflation is kind of
slowly picking up in recent months.
[clears throat] expect that to continue
most likely. I think that the you know
the Federal Reserve decisions in 2026
are one of the biggest swing factors in
markets for 2026. Obviously a new
chairman coming, some new members
probably coming. So [clears throat]
um a lot of uh yeah a lot of unexpected.
I I expect a slow increase in inflation.
I don't expect that'll impact technology
companies too much.
>> What's your favorite pick going into
2026, Jed?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Amazon is our favorite. I
think both their businesses are doing
exceptionally well. I think retail is
growing double digits. They're the
fastest growing large retailer in
America. Them, Walmart and Costco are
taking 60% of all new retail sales in
America. So big is winning in American
retail. And then I think AWS is
accelerating its revenue growth
alongside Google and Microsoft. I think
all three of those cloud computing
giants are doing very well and are
exceptionally positioned to grow at say
a 20% plus rate for for 5 years at very
high margins.
>> You mentioned Nvidia. How do you feel
about this stock especially given the
fact that we have this news from Reuters
that they're preparing H200s to be
shipped to China.
Yeah, I think if you like Nvidia today,
you point to a reasonable valuation, you
know, cheaper than its historical
average over five or 10 years, and you
think that we're in year three or four
of what might be a 10-year capital cycle
related to accelerated computing. If you
don't like the stock, um you're worried
about demand being disrupted perhaps by
things like OpenAI's funding, uh power
constraints here in America, things like
that. Uh we lean more toward the former.
We think that we are in a very strong
capital cycle. We think the ROI on
Nvidia's chips is very high and we think
that both the AS6 suppliers, the TPU um
and Amazon's Tranium chips will grow
alongside Nvidia and AMD. We think this
is a uh you know a rising tide lifts
most boat situation.
>> Jed, thanks so much for your time this
morning. Jed Elbrook of Argent Capital,
top pick for him next year. Amazon.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Yhierra is back
with the Bloomberg brief. Hey yra.
>> Hi Anmarie. The US launched large-scale
air strikes on more than 70 targets
across Syria, fulfilling President
Trump's vow to strike back after the
killing of two US soldiers there. US
Central Command said on Friday that
fighter jets [music] attack helicopters
and artillery targeted ISIS
infrastructure and weapon sites.
Meanwhile, a senior Russian general was
killed after a [music] bomb exploded in
his car in Moscow. An investigative
committee reporting in a telegram
statement, [music] the lieutenant
general was killed when the device
planted under his car detonated early
this morning. Russian [music]
investigators saying the involvement of
Ukrainian special services in the
killing was one potential theory [music]
being examined. Ukraine has not
commented.
And Paramount amending some of its terms
for its Warner Brothers discovery offer.
Larry Ellison agreeing to provide an an
irrevocable personal guarantee of more
than $40 billion dollars of the equity
financing for the offer and any damages
claims [music] and any damage claims
against Paramount. That's your brief and
Marie. I'm getting a viewer response in
real time. Barbarians [music] at the
gate. The sequel continues. It certainly
does when it comes to the fight for
Warner Brothers. Up next on the program,
your morning calls. Plus, Sutrita
Kadali, a forester, on the winners and
losers in retail this holiday season.
That's coming up next. You're watching
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music]
Ultimately
um when we think about what investors
[music] absorb this year, you know, it
certainly is one where um investors are
willing to look through some of the
noise. Asset values incorporate that
uncertainty quite quickly. Um, is there
anything that I see in the horizon that
really kind of changes that positive
ultimate environment? The capital spend
associated with what has been the driver
for a lot of these equity value uh
values are still out there.
>> That was Marvin Low of State Street
speaking to David and I earlier [music]
this morning. Jonathan is still on
paternity leave. Lisa is off, but the
barbarians, as one viewer writes in, are
at the gate. [music] The sequel
continues. as we are getting some news
about what Larry Ellison is willing to
do to get this deal over the finish
line. And [music] you can see Paramont
and Warner Brothers shares are higher
this morning. Netflix as well, but
probably less so potentially to do with
this. [music] Warner Brothers Discovery
up at one point more than 6% in
pre-market trading now closer to [music]
4%. David Larry Ellison has agreed to
provide a personal guarantee of more
than $40 billion of financing [music]
for this offer.
>> Just a huge amount of money. again kind
of trying to assuage concerns with the
initial deal that this was [music] too
spread out, that some of this money was
revocable. Um trying to make headway in
doing that, too. And I'm I'm struck here
by how uh they've also boosted [music]
their regulatory reverse termination fee
to 5.8 billion from 5 billion. So that
was something else that Netflix had
trumpeted. Look, if they were to go if
if if Warner Brothers were to go another
route, they'd have all this money that
shareholders would have to pay. Lo and
behold, they up this money as well. That
says to me that they do not think
[music] that they will have regulatory
issues if this deal goes through because
they're basically throwing another
billion dollars at [music] this. They
just keep throwing money at this
problem, if you will, or potentially the
the hope to get this deal done. I wonder
how much of this [music] is going to
come down to what the president said,
which at one point he said, "I'll have a
say."
>> Yeah. And he's been very koi or cagey
about that. You know, we know that the
Ellison's are very close with with
President Trump. He's downplayed that.
The president has in recent [music]
weeks. uh and we know that um Netflix
executives have met with him in the
context of this deal too. So it'll be
interesting to see sort of how he weighs
in, when he weighs in, and how [music]
he's going to shape the the ultimate
deal that we get here going forward.
>> Right. But what I would say is when that
Netflix deal came out, I told the team I
would not bet against Larry Ellison only
because he's put so much time and effort
[music] into the Trump administration
and they are not backing down on wanting
to keep leveling up. At the end of the
day though, Netflix coming in all cash
and this morning we [music] even had
some more details on how they plan to
finance that. This is going to be the
story that is going to continue into
2026. [music]
Time now for the morning calls this
morning. First up, City raising its
price target on Alphabet to $350. City
quoting industry-leading AI tools
[music] calling it a top pick for 2026.
Next up, Loop Capital upgrading Ali's
bargain outlet to buy, [music] saying
it's well positioned for the holiday
season. And finally, Piper Sandler
cutting its price target on E.L.F. to
$85, citing increasing competition
[music] in the space. Sticking with
retail, the holiday shopping season
underway as most measures of consumer
confidence suggesting the mood is worse
compared [music] to last year. Joining
us now is Suterita Kadali of Foresta.
Suterita, is it worse or is it just that
we are seeing that K-shaped economy
bleed into the holiday shopper? the
high-end is going for these super luxury
gifts and the low end is just struggling
to to hang on.
>> Well, one of the themes that we have
seen over the last several years is just
the dissonance between consumer
confidence and actual spend. So, in
spite of that low consumer confidence,
we are still seeing record high spends.
The K-shaped economy is part of that.
Although there are some curious elements
like the top of the Kay you would expect
would be reflected in the luxury sector
but many of the luxury stocks like Louis
Vuitton um car um Hermes they've
actually underperformed so um it has
been curious but some of the winners
have been as we heard in the earlier
segment have been Walmart Costco Amazon
these mass merchants that really span um
many different consumer demographics.
I'm very curious sort of what happens
once we get out of this holiday period.
So we saw Black Friday sales. Those were
pretty strong. As you say, consumers
have been very resilient, maybe even
more than that. They've been they've
been spending going forward here. Once
we get out of December into January, do
you think that things will change or do
you expect that that kind of begrudging
level of purchasing is going to continue
here into the to the new year post
holiday?
Well, that is the trillion dollar
question is are we going to continue to
see the growth into 2026 or are is there
going to be a downturn? And I think that
um a lot of people are certainly waiting
for the other shoe to drop. There are a
lot of concerns. We have seen a
flatlining of retail sales. it has
barely kept pace with inflation in
recent months. And those are really
where the big concerning signals are are
that if the shopper doesn't continue to
outpace inflation, we have already seen
a decline in units sold um for a number
of mass merchandise categories and
consumer packaged goods with CPG
players. And if the number of units um
purchased continues to go on and they
have essentially maxed out what people
are willing to pay, we will eventually
see not even um a shifting and
substitution. We're just going to see
straight out savings and not purchasing.
>> Are these mass merchants, these big box
stores doing anything different now? Are
they still just using the playbook
that's that's kind of made them unique
throughout throughout all of the through
for Time Memorial? I mean, are are they
doing something that's sort of
compensating for the way the economy
looks right now, the way trade policy
is, for instance? Are are they doing
anything new or is it just the triedand-
trueue playbook?
>> Well, every week I seem to see some AI
press release from all of them. Um, so
they certainly are trying to persuade
the street um that they're doing
different things and that technology is
a catalyst for the numbers that they are
seeing. Um I still continue to re remain
skeptical about how much those AI um
solutions are actually driving value in
retail particularly in mass retail. Um a
lot of it is still about having the
right product at the right place and
pricing it appropriately for shoppers.
>> So Jita when it comes to pricing
something that is looming large over the
administration of financial markets is
going to be what's happening at the
Supreme Court with AIPA. How are
companies really starting to digest
whether or not they're going to get
refunds or do they not get the refunds?
The administration is going to find
another legal avenue to still exert the
same tariff policy.
>> Well, there as with respect to tariffs,
it is something that um really has been
a big question mark. It's been a bit of
a cloud over most retailers over the
last year. Um many of the largest ones
seemingly have persevered um over the
years. They have diversified their
manufacturing anyway so that they have
tried to be as tariff proof particularly
in some of the most sensitive goods.
They've had relatively strong investment
in retail supply chains to enable
flexibility in that regard. They've
invested in things like e-commerce
marketplaces which allow them to have
some bit of a cushion um if there are
supply chain shocks that of which
tariffs could be a factor. Um, but the
whole tariff question is something that
hasn't necessarily weighed down on
retailers or consumers, I think, as much
as we thought they would this time last
year.
>> I wanted to get your update on your
thoughts surrounding Nike. Friday didn't
have such a great day that you're still
seeing this issue when it comes to
China. The CEO, I think, talked about as
middle innings. How would you describe
their turnaround plan?
Well, they are indeed still in
turnaround and turnaround has ups and
downs and uh in this case it seems like
they have they're in a down. Um whether
or not they're going to be able to pull
it off is really going to depend on
everything from whether or not they can
be on trend. They there is a significant
part of that business which has been not
really about marketing as much as it is
about operations about having the right
quantity of inventory and being
competitive um with some of the other
players in the space that are emerging
and seemingly taking a lot of the
digital shelf shelf share as well as
some of the physical shelf share like
the hocas and the of the world doesn't
sound like they're your top pick for
Christmas. What is your top pick for the
holiday shoppers going into Christmas
this week?
>> Well, we heard it before and I'm going
to reinforce it. It is Costco, Walmart,
and Amazon. The mass merchants are
really the ones that are indeed cleaning
up. These are the ones that um the
consumers are gravitating to both for
some of those essentials as well as um
surprise and delight items. So, I really
think that um it is a it's a pretty
obvious pick from from the large
retailer standpoint. From a specialty
standpoint, we're seeing some of the
beauty companies. Ulta in particular is
doing well. The Gap has had a bit of a
resurgence. So, if we uh if we look at
Gap, um maybe Nike can can pull
something around too. um because GAP 2
um over the the the last several
quarters has had more downs I would
argue than up but they seem to be doing
um better now.
>> Suterita, thanks so much for joining us.
Suchita Kadali of Forester. Interesting.
When she says things like Amazon,
Walmart, and Costco, I kind of shrug and
sigh because it doesn't give me a sense
of what the hot item is for Christmas.
Sometimes, you know, it's people are
bidding up on eBay for something cuz
their kid desperately wants it under
under the I've been there.
>> Tree. Oh, have you? [laughter]
>> What's the hot item then? You know, you
have children. excitement, but
thankfully that's like subsided. So, but
it's always like I have two boys. It's a
lot of jerseys like a lot of sports.
>> One Yankees fan, one Mets fan, there's a
lot of rivalry that takes place.
>> You have a Yankees and a Mets fan under
the same household drive
this morning. The Mets are not doing
well. They're they're struggling at the
moment, basically [music] losing all
their players. Coming up in the program,
taking back more serious matters.
Federal Reserve Governor Steven Meyer
will join us right here in studio as
investors weigh whether rates where
investors investors [music] we weigh
where rates will head in 2026. I'll get
my words out this morning. This comes as
equity markets are hoping for [music] a
Santa Claus rally this morning. We do
see futures in the green.
[music]
Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. I'm Amber Gordern
alongside David Gur this morning.
Jonathan Pharaoh's on paternity leave
and Lisa is off for the week. We are one
hour away from the cash open. [music]
Let's get you an update on morning
movers this morning with Danny Berger.
Hey Danny. Hey Marie. As gold and
silver, the precious metals hit all-time
highs. [music] The miners are also
moving there too. New mount angle gold
both up at least 3% this morning after a
lot adding to the firepower behind gold.
Be it geopolitics beat [music] expected
rate cuts in a record year at least
going back to 1979. That's the move for
those gold miners. [music] Elsewhere,
Honeywell, one of the biggest losers
today, issuing a trade update, saying
[music] that both their fourth quarter
and their fullear forecasts are going to
come in below what they were expecting.
For one, one of their businesses no
longer part of the company because
they've spun it off. That's their
advanced materials. [music] Also hitting
a snag when it comes to some legislative
some uh not legislative, some legal
action with [music] Flexjet taking
against Honeywell. So, those shares down
1%. And the big move of the morning,
Warner Brothers Discovery adding some
weight to a rally this [music] morning,
up nearly 4%. Uh news coming in in the
last hour. The concern [music] with
Warner Brothers Discovery and
Paramount's bid to be specific was that
they didn't have enough clear backing.
The equity backing was not necessarily
there. It was a revocable family trust.
[music] Now, Larry Ellison is personally
backing this deal with over 40 billion
of his own equity. They've also
increased the breakup fee from [music] 5
billion to 5.8 billion. So trying to
make those terms more attractive, still
offering about $30 a share. So gun and
Marie, those shares up 4% to the
pre-market. [music]
>> The saga continues when it comes for the
fight of Warner Brothers. Danny, thank
you so much. Turning to the economy,
investors are watching for signals from
policy makers [music]
heading into a key year for the Federal
Reserve with a new chair expected to be
announced soon. Cleveland Fed President
Beth Hammock among those preferring to
hold rates higher for longer. while our
next guest is taking the other side,
voting for a 50 basis point cut at the
Fed's last meeting. Joining us now is
Federal Reserve Governor Stephen Meyer.
Very good morning to you, Stephen. Thank
you so much for joining us.
>> Good morning. Thanks for having me back.
>> So, let's start with Beth Hammock. She
came out over the weekend. Then we heard
for Williams as well on Friday saying
that potentially where we are right now,
rates should be steady. And they're
looking at what's going on inflation.
Even the Fed chair was talking about
maybe you need to look at inflation, the
data we had with some grain of salt
because of the government shutdown. How
are view you viewing that side of the
Fed's mandate right now?
>> Yeah, so I gave a speech on the
inflation outlook last week and uh you
know and and I still believe everything
I said last week in light of this week's
print. Uh last week's print. I mean
look, there were a couple of anomalies
in last week's print related to
consequences of the government shutdown
which have distorted and delayed
economic data that we need to make
policy. Um but you know those
consequences I think are are not huge.
there. When you sort of get to when you
get to sort of the ultimate PCE print,
which is what the Fed uh which is what
the Fed targets, it's probably
ultimately going to be in the
neighborhood of two ten of a point,
maybe a tenth of that is going to be
shelter and a tenth of the other stuff
is going to be, you know, calendar stuff
like prices like data were collected in
the second half of the month or on Black
Friday stuff, but we'll have to sort of
see when we get the PCE data. Um, but it
is true that the shelter stuff was
somewhat distorted by some of the quirks
of the of recovering from the shutdown.
Um, but it's also true that the shelter
data were distorted for most of the year
because of really long lags with which
shelter inflation is calculated. If you
look at market rents, they've been
running at about a 1% rate for about 2
years now, right? That's not indicative
of any price pressures in housing
whatsoever, but it takes a really long
time for measured shelter inflation to
catch up to that just because of various
quirks of the statistical measurement
process that I got into my speech last
week. So, I do think there was maybe
some downward bias in last week's print,
but at the same time, there's been tons
of upward bias in data for the entire
year, and it's inappropriate to say,
okay, well, we have to adjust for the
downward bias, but we're going to accept
the upward bias. That itself is a deeply
biased position. We got to be
[clears throat] clear, right about both.
>> Well, do you feel like, and yourself
included, but do you feel like members
of the Fed are cherry-picking what about
inflation they like or dislike? Well, I
mean, you know, I think that for the
last few months, we've had data come out
in accordance with, I think, my view of
the world. The inflation data has
steadily come in cooler than
expectations. The unemployment rate has
has poked up potentially above where
people thought it was going to go. And
so, we've had data that should push
people into a doubbish direction. And I
think it's somewhat problematic if you
see those data coming out and you don't
adjust your policy prescriptions in a
doubish direction. What does that say
about the reactiveness of policy to the
economy? It, you know, I think it looks
very, it reflects very poorly upon the
institution. At the end of that speech
at Colombia, you nodded to the fact that
uh recessions are inevitable. Fed's jobs
kind of forestall them as much as as
they can. Policy makers jobs are that
I'm I'm very curious when you look at
the labor market in particular, the rise
that we've seen in the unemployment
rate. That's kind of rise we've seen
customarily before recessions. How do
you assess the the risk of there being a
recession here in the near term when you
look at the labor market for instance?
>> So I don't see a recession in the near
term in part because we are adjusting
our policy rate uh by lowering it which
is appropriate. uh you know my view as
I've as I've described is that a ve a a
variety of shocks that hit the economy
you know including changes to the
population growth rate due to changes in
the border policy have pushed what we
call the neutral rate down and that
policy needs to adjust downward to
reflect that downward shift in neutral
if we don't adjust policy down then I
think that we do run risks of rising
recess of rising recessions I don't
think it's too late to prevent that and
so I think it's important that we keep
on adjusting our policy rate down but at
the moment it's not my base case in part
because I think that we ultimately will
end up adjust continuing to adjust
interest rates down.
>> I want to ask you about the utility of
the Myan descent. So we had the uh the
Fed chair asked at that press conference
about the increasing kind of fractured
nature of the Fed committee. We've
talked about quiet descents as well. Um
what are you achieving or sort of what's
the reaction been to you desenting as
you have been kind of in the
conversation among the the committee?
>> Yeah. So look, I mean there's not really
any strategy here. I'm just transparent
and say what I think and always have and
that gets me in a lot of trouble. And uh
>> but does it or is it a constructive? So
when you when you descend in the way in
which you do does is it a constructive
descent? Do you find that others are
willing to engage with you and your
perspective on inflation for instance?
>> Yeah. Well, my perspective on inflation
is is is you know look in my first
speech I talked about inflation a little
bit but I I mostly was focused on on
neutral. Uh my speech last week I really
drew out a lot about my outlook for
inflation that was sort of implicit in
the first speech and sort of just cursy
uh cursely curs cursorily treated and I
really drew that out. So my views on
inflation haven't been out there fully
fleshed out for the committee for so
long and now running into holiday
season. But I have found that people are
that people are constructive. They want
to discuss these things and I think
that's important. And you know look one
positive benefit of me potentially
dissenting like this is that it
introduces a more a wider variety of of
of views. I think it's really really
important to avoid group think. I think
if you if you fall into group think, you
stop questioning where you could be
wrong and then it just becomes much
easier to be a complacent consensus that
is in error. I think we've seen that
over and over this year. For example, on
tariffs.
>> Let's talk potentially about tariffs.
The president is pushing for this $2,000
tariff dividend. Uh the Treasury
Secretary is talking about these tax
refunds start of 2026. Is there
potential that more money in consumer's
pockets could goose inflation?
>> Yeah. So, there is potential for some of
these factors to boost economic growth.
With respect to sort of tax refunds, you
know, I think that sorry, with respect
to tariff refunds, I think we need to
sort of wait and see what the policy
looks like before getting into uh
analyzing its consequences if there does
end up being a policy. with respect to
tax refunds that are a result of the
already legislated uh tax bill, the one
big beautiful bill act from last year,
those are already baked into the
forecast and they will provide a little
bit of demand stimulus, but there's so
much other stuff going on as a result of
policy in ootb in deregulation in other
things that are going on economic policy
that ultimately push out the supply side
of the economy too. And my view is that
if you push out the demand side while
you're putting the brakes on the supply
side, you get inflation. If you push out
supply and demand at the same time, it
doesn't really have an effect on prices.
>> But do you think it was a mistake that
when we had under the Biden
administration, the American Rescue
Plan, Inflation Reduction Act, sending
out checks to American consumers? Was
that an error?
>> Well, it's not appropriate for uh you
know, for a member of the Federal
Reserve describing as an error or not,
but I do think that if you if you hit if
you hit the gas on demand while you're
hitting the brakes on supply at the same
time, it will result in higher prices.
That is that is that is an economic
>> would $2,000 checks do a similar
reaction as we saw by the other checks
during the American Rescue Plan.
>> Well, it depends what's happening on the
supply. So, two things matter. One is
the state of the demand uh state of
aggregate demand
outside of those checks. And if you go
back several years, the economy was
recovering on its own from co from CO,
right? It was co was not like you know
the great the financial crisis which had
lingering deleveraging effects for a
decade plus which meant that demand was
per was persistently depressed after co
you know we started getting vaccines we
started getting antivirals places
started opening back up the economy
started returning to normal on its own
and so demand was growing quite
healthfully and jobs numbers were
beating every month and so throwing more
economic support on top of that wound up
sort of pushing an already expanding
demand side to expand even further.
Right now you see the unemployment rate
is tilting up on its own right so demand
is in a separate is is in a very
different place than it was in 2021 but
so is supply right and I think that if
you're taking policy steps that are
going to push out supply or supply is
moving out for reasons other than policy
for instance AI uh which I find
difficult to quantify but a lot of
people put a lot of put a lot of faith
in if supply is moving out for whatever
reasons it can accommodate increasing
demand and so the effect on prices could
be very different
>> on higher goods inflation there is a
prevailing narrative that the tariff
policy has a to do with what's been
pushing that up and you kind of push
back against that. You did that in the
speech that you delivered at Columbia uh
as well. Um at the same time, you talk a
lot about humility, how much uncertainty
there is. I think you nodded to Mvin
King in that speech and what he's
written about uncertainty. Um what's it
going to take for do you do you feel
like you have a grasp of the effects of
the tariff policy thus far or are you
still waiting to figure out sort of what
that's going to mean for the economy
broadly and yes when it comes to to
goods inflation? Yeah. So, look, in in
the speech, I did discuss how there's
this consensus has emerged that tariffs
are a significant driver of inflation in
the same way a consensus emerged earlier
in the year that tariffs are going to
drive some sort of crazy recession. Uh,
you know, that that that was that was
there. Um, and I think that consensus is
wrong and I think and I think it's
complacent. I described uh
counterfactuals, right? If you're
ascribing a result in prices to tariffs,
you need to say what the world would
have been like without tariffs. Now what
most people do is they look at what we
call the pre-trends. What were the
trends of various items uh before
tariffs, right? And most people select
pre-trends from the two decades before
the pandemic, right? When the world was
very very different. I don't think that
that's really appropriate. Instead, the
counterfactuals that I want to look at
that I describe in in the speech and I
include pictures for them are two
things. One, what are imported goods
imported core goods in the PC index
doing relative to overall core goods?
and two uh what are what's happening in
international basis and in both of those
cases I don't see anything that would
indicate to me that tariffs are the are
the driver of core goods inflation when
you look at imported goods versus
overall core goods they're inflating at
similar rates imported goods don't stick
out when you look at US core goods
versus other countries again US core
goods are in the middle of the pack and
there hasn't been a change that would
indicate to me that there's some sort of
very significant tariff shock so I think
it's actually quite complacent for
people to ascribe all this inflation to
tariffs and indeed if you look at CPI
core goods and CPI bottomed out in the
middle of last year right seven or eight
months before tariffs were implemented.
>> I just want to get a sense before before
you leave us how are you thinking about
the next meeting because it could
potentially be your last. Do you plan on
dissenting in favor of 50 basis point
cut again?
>> Look, I plan on I plan on pushing for
the policy that I think is appropriate
at the time. I will say when I got to
the Fed, we hadn't cut rates at all this
year and so it was very important for us
to move rates down quickly. Since then,
we've pushed rates down three times, 75
basis points of cuts to the to the
policy rate. So, the need for me to
descent for 50 becomes a little bit less
as we come down. I haven't yet decided
whether I'm going to push for 25 or 50
next meeting. I think it depends on on
on a variety of factors. So, I could see
voting for 25, but I do think it's
important that we continue steadily
reducing the policy rate.
>> So, basically, you'll vote for 25, but
the rest of the committee's there. If
they're not going to push through 25,
you may alert everyone of your your
dissatisfaction with them by going for
50.
>> Uh, well, it no, it depends. I I think I
I want to see the data. You know, we're
still we're still waiting on a lot of
data because the shutdown, right? So, I
want to see what the data do to my
forecast going forward and how they and
how they changed my forecast going
forward. But the truth is that I think
that it was really important to vote to
sorry to to cut in bigger clips when
policy was very high. as we continue
reducing policy, I think you sort of get
into into territory where you can start
micromanaging instead of big instead of
big cuts. And I don't know whether we're
here yet or it would sort of still take
a couple more cuts to get there, but at
some point you sort of start to become
okay with sort of steady 25 basis point
cuts instead of 50 basis point cuts.
>> Do you think it's going to be your last
meeting? Has the White House reached out
about whether or not you're going to
stay on at the Fed?
>> I have no idea. I mean, look, you know,
if nobody is confirmed in my seat by
January 31st, I'll I assume that I will
stay I will stay in my seat. uh you
know, you can stay in a seat until until
a successor is is confirmed. And then
beyond uh beyond that, you know, it'll
all depend on on on who the president
ultimately nominates to be the the the
next chairman of the Fed. Uh because
it'll depend on, you know, what seats
are available and who the president
wants to fill them.
>> When it comes to the next chairman of
the Federal Reserve, there are two
individuals that you've worked closely
with just this year alone. Kevin Hasset,
of course, when you were um at the White
House and also Christopher Waller,
Governor Waller, of course, with you at
the Fed. Can you just give us your
evaluation of both those individuals
given the fact that you have a very good
I imagine relationship with both of
them?
>> Yeah, look, they're both supremely
talented economists and extremely
effective individuals that I have the
utmost respect for and I think the
country would be very lucky to have
either of them.
>> Um, a quick question just about what
you've witnessed in terms of the
chairman's role at the Fed. You've been
there for a few months. Um, is is there
anything that surprised you about the
way that Fed Chair Powell is able to
kind of go to get people to galvanize
themselves around any kind of unonymity
the way that he runs the committee? I
think we think about the Fed chair as
this kind of principal position. The
president kind of makes us think that
way that this is going to be a highly a
person have a lot of determinism
himself, but the Fed chair's
responsibility is to try to get
everybody on board with with decisions.
What have you witnessed about Fed Chair
Pal's ability to do that? What would you
say to the president about that facet a
Fed chair has to have to be effective?
Look, you know, I think that uh there's
obviously a lot of people on the
committee who are not comfortable with
with rate cuts. Uh and I think that's
the wrong economic position at the
moment given the data that we have
available to us and the forecast that we
have available to us and the very
well-known, very well understood upward
biases that are that are affecting
inflation measurement at this moment in
time. I think that's the wrong the wrong
view. No question about it.
Nevertheless, I think you have to give
Chairman Powell uh you know a credit for
having wrangled uh you know wrangled
three cuts out of these guys in in in
succession and and it's a it's a it's a
it's a it's a cat hurting task. Uh and I
you know and I think we have to you know
we we got to give them a little credit
for that.
>> Well, it definitely is a cat- hurting
task. We look forward to to the next
meeting and see where you come up
whether 50 or 25 basis points. Governor
Steven, thank you so much for your time
this morning.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Let's get you an update on stories we're
watching elsewhere this morning. Yhira
is back with your Bloomberg brief. Hey
Yahara. Hi, Anmirie. The US is pursuing
a third oil tanker near Venezuela as
President Trump intensifies an oil
blockade against Nicolas Maduro's
government. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that tanker is the Bella 1, a
panameanium flagged [music] vessel
sanctioned by the US. The attempted
interdiction follows the boarding of the
Century Super Tanker early [music]
Saturday and the Skipper on December
10th. Meanwhile, President Trump has
announced deals with nine more
pharmaceutical companies in a bid to
lower drug prices for some Americans.
The agreements with companies including
Seni and J [music] GSK come in exchange
for a three-year reprieve from
threatened tariffs. The latest pledges
include price cuts for low-income
earners and matching of international
[music] prices.
And in sports, the Jacksonville Jaguars
beat the Denver Broncos 34 to20, winning
their sixth straight game and ending
Denver's 11game winning streak.
Elsewhere, the Steelers beat the [music]
Detroit Lions 29 to 24 after a penalty
on the final play took away the
potential gamewinning touchdown. And the
Chargers [music] beat the Dallas Cowboys
34-7 and the Patriots won their 12th
game of the year over the sliding
[music] Baltimore Ravens. That's your
Bloomberg brief. Emory,
>> thanks so much. You coming up next, Fed
Governor Steven Myron found out Neil Dud
is in the studio and he's sticking
around. Both those gentlemen will join
us next. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music]
Good morning and welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. As we head into the open
this morning, equity futures are
pointing green. It does look like the
markets will potentially get that Santa
Claus rally. S&P [music] 500 futures up
4/10en of a percent. Sticking with us,
still with us is Governor Steven. He
heard that Neil Duta of RENMAC was
coming up. So, he wanted to stay around
for this discussion because you heard
something in the green room you liked
what Neil had to say and you were
potentially going to include it maybe in
some of your speeches or right here on
the program.
>> I did. Look, I think I think Neil said
something very eloquently which which I
think is a really fantastic way of
framing it, which is Neil said that
there are three drivers of inflation.
There's shelter, there's labor, and
there's energy. And neither of them is
remotely flashing orange right now, let
alone red. When you look at those three
drivers, it looks like cool all around.
So, as a result, you know, you got to
make some conclusions about where
inflation's going over the next year or
two.
>> Yeah.
>> What do you want me to say? You know,
it's true. I mean, well, so I think the
one thing I would say is that everyone's
kind of lamenting the fact that the BLS
made these assumptions around the last
inflation number. What if assuming zero
for shelter inflation was the right
assumption? You know, there's a lot of
focus on non-housing services as well,
but as the labor markets continue to
cool off, the prices for those things
will also cool off. I mean, the quits
rate is actually at a cycle low in the
private sector. So, um that tells me
that workers don't really have the
confidence to leave their jobs, which
means that the balance of power in the
jobs market, I think, has shifted
towards employers. And so, uh, I think
that's encouraging for the inflation
outlook. Um, and with respect to energy,
I mean, look, u, retail gasoline prices
are falling. Now, obviously that's sort
of a one-time thing, but it will take
pressure off of household inflation
expectations, which the Fed says that
they're concerned about. So, um, I'm
encouraged by the inflation outlook, and
I think the balance of risks are such
that, uh, the Fed should be supporting
growth. But you're less encouraged by
what's going on in the labor market. Is
that correct?
>> I mean, what's there to be encouraged
about? All the jobs growth is basically
coming from healthcare. I mean, that was
true in the last number as well.
Cyclical industries are still slowing.
And you have to look at, you know, to
me, it's important to kind of think
about um you know, sort of an add-up
exercise looking at the underbelly of
the jobs market and like where's the
jobs growth coming from. You know, home
build, we talk about record high profit
margins. A lot of that's driven by tech.
That's not a big uh driver of
employment. You look at the margins for
home builders, home builder profit
margins have been eroding. I mean, it's
very challenging to keep buying people
down at um you know, at these at the
rates that they've been doing. That
opens up risk for residential
construction jobs. What about mining?
Oil prices are down. You think oil rigs
are going to hire mining workers or
lumber? Lumber prices are down too,
>> right? So there's a lot of this sort of
um focus on how um you know I think
tariffs are weighing on employment but
the truth is in things like oil and
lumber and housing I mean prices are
down and there's no um there's no hiring
going on. So I think by sort of putting
it all the onus on the white house I
mean you're absolving the Fed in that
regard and I think that that's a
mistake. I think there's there are
things the Fed can do to support growth.
>> Do you think the economy is weak because
of what's going on in the labor market?
I mean, Neil's not exactly pointing out
a rosy picture when it comes to jobs and
employment.
>> No, he's not. And as I've said before, I
think the Federal Reserve is too tight.
I think it's our job to balance prices
in the labor market. And I think that we
are not doing a great job of that at at
the moment. I think lower rates are
appropriate. And I think, look, you
know, one of the key factors here is
that monetary policy hits the economy
with lags, right? Most people think
those lags are about 12 to 18 months.
That means right now we got to make
policy for 2027. And I think there's an
excessive data dependence at the Federal
Reserve because that makes you very
backward-looking. There's a lot of
people who say, I want to see it in, you
know, I need to sort of see this ABC in
the data, right? But the data are right
now giving you information from July,
right? It's very backward-looking. And
in some cases, because of the lags and
shelter that we talked about earlier,
the data are giving you information
about 2023, right? Not now. So, we need
to be making policy for 2027. We should
not be making policy for 2023 in the
rearview mirror. I think it's really
important for us to be forward-looking
about what developments in inflation
labor market are. And I think that sort
of paying attention to to o overly
overly data dependent means you're too
rearview mirror driving and I think
that's an accident for missing turns.
>> Do you think that there are things the
Fed can do outside of rate cuts to help
uh revive labor market conditions? I
mean, you know, we see this morning, you
know, JGB yields have exploded. I mean,
I think, you know, there is an open
question about how much rate cuts would
actually bring down longerterm rates,
right? So, have you thought about
balance sheet tools to kind of um pull
down longerterm interest rates?
>> I mean, not at present. I still think
we're in a in a relatively vanilla
economic environment where lower
front-end rates will pull uh lower
backend rates down over time, all else
equal. Now, of course, all else is never
equal, but the the type of regime you're
describing where you cut the front end
rate and that sort of causes the backend
rate to sell off that can occur that
tends to occur in places where there's
uh you know, worries about about uh
about fiscal solveny and liquidity. And
I don't really see any of that. Uh when
you sort of look around, I think we're
in a very in a very normal uh normal
environment where where lower front end
rates would would support the bond
market.
>> Governor Steven, thank you so much. a
bonus round because Neil Duna of
Renaissance Macro decided to join. He
was excited to get your views. Both of
you gentlemen, I wish we had more time.
We're out of time today. And thank you
to David Gur who's
>> happy to be here.
>> Who's uh headed off now to his
muchdeserved vacation. I'll be with you
the rest of the week. Jonathan is still
on paternity leave. Lisa is off for the
week. But coming up tomorrow, Paul
Christopher of Wells Fargo, Moina Mahan
of Edward Jones, Vincent Reinhardt of
BNY, and Dan Skellyy of Morgan Stanley.
This was Bloomberg surveillance. Markets
this morning pointing to an optimistic
start to the week. [music] It is the
second to final week of the year. S&P
500 futures up more than 4/10en of a
percent. Good [music] morning.
Heat. [music]
[music]
Heat.